Which COVID-19 vaccine trials were paused and what were the health safety concerns?


Result 1: uid jgydghd4

COVID-10 vaccine safety monitoring in US: no serious concerns

None


Result 2: uid 29okh8l1

COVID-19 vaccine safety monitoring

None


Result 3: uid b0x84n4e

A Commentary on Realities of Developing COVID-19 Vaccines Discussed through the Global Health Safety Perspective

SARS-CoV-2 (or simply COVID-19) remains to be a global pandemic issue affecting millions, thus urging the world’s scientific community to develop efficient vaccine and design adequate measures of disease control. Currently, the most economically viable solution to infections and viruses is vaccination, despite the possible concerns about side effects from implementing quickly developed vaccine. The current commentary intends to explain the health and safety related to COVID-19 vaccines via a prism of global health safety. Scientists across the globe, along with companies from both public and private sectors, have predictably arranged cooperative programs to learn about COVID-19, along with taking simultaneous steps on devising vaccine and preparing effective treatments plans. Presently, several clinical trials to approve the efficiency of proposed vaccine solutions have been made successfully. Global health safety concerns on vaccine’s efficiency such as high costs of production, provision of vaccine to developing countries, and its influence on the global economy are addressed. This commentary reflects on current efforts related to the development of vaccine against COVID-19, which currently affects the global health status and economy. In addition, the commentary aims at addressing potential risks related to the development of COVID-19 vaccine from the global health safety perspective.


Result 4: uid wqq7k49o

Exploring the Willingness to Accept SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine in a University Population in Southern Italy, September to November 2020

Understanding whether members of the university population are willing to receive a future vaccination against COVID-19 and identifying barriers may help public health authorities to develop effective strategies and interventions to contain COVID-19. This cross-sectional study explored the willingness to accept a future SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in a university population in Southern Italy. The perceived risk level of developing COVID-19 was 6.5 and it was significantly higher among females, younger subjects, and those who agreed/strongly agreed that COVID-19 is a severe disease. Only 21.4% of respondents were not worried at all regarding the safety of the vaccine. Males, not being married/cohabitant, being a faculty member, those who perceived a lower risk of developing COVID-19, and those who did not need information regarding the vaccination against COVID-19 were significantly more likely to have no concern at all regarding the safety of the vaccine. The vast majority (84.1%) were willing to receive a future vaccine against COVID-19. Almost coherently with predictors of concern on the safety of the vaccine, being male, not being married/cohabitant, being a faculty member, not being concerned at all that COVID-19 vaccination might not be safe, and agreeing that COVID-19 can have serious health consequences were significant predictors of the willingness to receive the vaccine against COVID-19. A considerable proportion of the population had a positive willingness to receive the future COVID-19 vaccine, although some concerns have been expressed regarding the effectiveness and safety and public health activities seem necessary to achieve the rate that can lead to the protection of the community.


Result 5: uid pluzo3qu

Assessment of the knowledge, preferences and concern regarding the prospective COVID- 19 vaccine among adults residing in New Delhi, India-A cross-sectional study

Background Understanding the perception and concerns of people about COVID-19 vaccine in developing and populous country like India will help in understanding demand for the vaccine and further tailoring out public health information and education activities before the launch of the vaccine. The study was carried out to assess the present state of knowledge people have about the probable vaccine for COVID-19, to know the preferences of respondents about this vaccine and to learn the expectations and apprehensions of people about features of this prospective COVID-19 vaccine residing in the capital city of India. Methods This cross-sectional study was conducted amongst the residents of Delhi, India from July-October 2020. Both offline and online interview method was used to collect date from 513 participants representing various occupational strata. Data was collected on socio demographic variable, vaccine acceptance and concerns regarding COVID-19 vaccine. Results Among the study population 79.5% said they will take the vaccine while 8.8% said they were not going to take the vaccine and remaining 11.7% had not yet decided about it. Most of them(78.8%),believed that vaccine would be available to public next year but at the same time half(50.1%) of them believe that it may not be in sufficient amount for everyone to get. More than 50% were willing to pay for the vaccine and 72% felt vaccine should first be given to health workers and high risk group. Conclusion The following study has helped to understand the percentage of people who are hesitant to take the vaccine and also the concerns regarding the vaccine. Also since half of the population is willing to pay for the vaccine, a strategical approach considering the various economical classes of people could be applied in a developing country like India.


