What are the interactions between innate and adaptive immune responses in COVID‐19?


Result 1: uid 0bc9j6f7

Understanding the Host Innate Immune Responses against SARS-CoV-2 Infection and COVID-19 Pathogenesis

The emergence of a new severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic has become a significant health concern worldwide. Undoubtedly, a better understanding of the innate and adaptive immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 and its relationship with the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pathogenesis will be the sole basis for developing and applying therapeutics. This review will summarize the published results that relate to innate immune responses against infections with human coronaviruses including SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 in both humans and animal models. The topics encompass the innate immune sensing of the virus to the dysregulation of various innate immune cells during infection and disease progression.


Result 2: uid 9x2glydc

Innate and adaptive immune responses to SARS‐CoV‐2 in humans: relevance to acquired immunity and vaccine responses

The factors responsible for the spectrum of coronavirus 19 (COVID‐19) disease severity and the genesis and nature of protective immunity against COVID‐19 remain elusive. Multiple studies have investigated the immune responses to COVID‐19 in various populations, including those without evidence of COVID‐19 infection. Information regarding innate and adaptive immune responses to the novel severe respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS‐CoV‐2) has evolved rapidly. Data are accumulating defining disease phenotypes that aid in rational and informed development of new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of patients infected with SARS‐CoV‐2 and the development of novel vaccines. In this paper, data on important innate immune responses are summarized, including cytokines, specifically interleukin (IL)‐6 and complement, and potential treatments are explored. Adaptive immune responses and derivative therapeutics such as monoclonal antibodies directed at spike proteins are also examined. Finally, data on real‐time assessments of adaptive immune responses are explored, which include CD4(+)/CD8(+) T cells, natural killer (NK) T cells, memory B cells and T follicular cells with specificities for COVID‐19 peptides in infected and normal individuals. Data of two novel vaccines have been released, both showing > 95% efficacy in preventing SARS‐CoV‐2 infection. Analysis of humoral and cellular responses to the vaccines will determine the robustness and durability of protection. In addition, long‐term assessment of SARS‐CoV‐2 memory B and T cell‐mediated immune responses in patients recovering from an infection or those with cross‐reactive immunological memory will help to define risk for future SARS‐CoV infections. Finally, patients recovering from SARS‐CoV‐2 infection may experience prolonged immune activation probably due to T cell exhaustion. This will be an important new frontier for study.


Result 3: uid so5vh0sw

Innate and adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 in humans: relevance to acquired immunity and vaccine responses

The factors responsible for the spectrum of coronavirus 19 (COVID-19) disease severity and the genesis and nature of protective immunity against COVID-19 remain elusive. Multiple studies have investigated the immune responses to COVID-19 in various populations, including those without evidence of COVID-19 infection. Information regarding innate and adaptive immune responses to the novel severe respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has evolved rapidly. Data are accumulating defining disease phenotypes that aid in rational and informed development of new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 and the development of novel vaccines. In this paper, data on important innate immune responses are summarized, including cytokines, specifically interleukin (IL)-6 and complement, and potential treatments are explored. Adaptive immune responses and derivative therapeutics such as monoclonal antibodies directed at spike proteins are also examined. Finally, data on real-time assessments of adaptive immune responses are explored, which include CD4+ /CD8+ T cells, natural killer (NK) T cells, memory B cells and T follicular cells with specificities for COVID-19 peptides in infected and normal individuals. Data of two novel vaccines have been released, both showing > 95% efficacy in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection. Analysis of humoral and cellular responses to the vaccines will determine the robustness and durability of protection. In addition, long-term assessment of SARS-CoV-2 memory B and T cell-mediated immune responses in patients recovering from an infection or those with cross-reactive immunological memory will help to define risk for future SARS-CoV infections. Finally, patients recovering from SARS-CoV-2 infection may experience prolonged immune activation probably due to T cell exhaustion. This will be an important new frontier for study.


Result 4: uid k3q9fttu

Immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection in Humans and ACE2 humanized mice

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) represents a major public health threat worldwide. Insight into protective and pathogenic aspects of SARS-CoV-2 immune responses is critical to work out effective therapeutics and develop vaccines for controlling the disease. Here, we review the present literature describing the innate and adaptive immune responses including innate immune cells, cytokine responses, antibody responses and T cell responses against SARS-CoV-2 in human infection, as well as in AEC2-humanized mouse infection. We also summarize the now known and unknown about the role of the SARS-CoV-2 immune responses. By better understanding the mechanisms that drive the immune responses, we can tailor treatment strategies at specific disease stages and improve our response to this worldwide public health threat.


Result 5: uid cv2a6bfw

The immune response to SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 immunopathology – Current perspectives

SARS-CoV-2 is a new beta coronavirus, similar to SARS-CoV-1, that emerged at the end of 2019 in the Hubei province of China. It is responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. The ability to gain quick control of the pandemic has been hampered by a lack of detailed knowledge about SARS-CoV-2-host interactions, mainly in relation to viral biology and host immune response. The rapid clinical course seen in COVID-19 indicates that infection control in asymptomatic patients or patients with mild disease is probably due to the innate immune response, as, considering that SARS-CoV-2 is new to humans, an effective adaptive response would not be expected to occur until approximately 2–3 weeks after contact with the virus. Antiviral innate immunity has humoral components (complement and coagulation-fibrinolysis systems, soluble proteins that recognize glycans on cell surface, interferons, chemokines, and naturally occurring antibodies) and cellular components (natural killer cells and other innate lymphocytes). Failure of this system would pave the way for uncontrolled viral replication in the airways and the mounting of an adaptive immune response, potentially amplified by an inflammatory cascade. Severe COVID-19 appears to be due not only to viral infection but also to a dysregulated immune and inflammatory response. In this paper, the authors review the most recent publications on the immunobiology of SARS-CoV-2, virus interactions with target cells, and host immune responses, and highlight possible associations between deficient innate and acquired immune responses and disease progression and mortality. Immunotherapeutic strategies targeting both the virus and dysfunctional immune responses are also addressed.


