How efficient are herd immunity approaches to COVID-19 containment?  


Result 1: uid uuhmo94b

COVID-19 Herd Immunity in the Absence of a Vaccine: An Irresponsible Approach

With SARS-CoV-2 continuing to spread rapidly throughout the human population, the concept of 'herd immunity' has been attracting the attention of both decision makers and the general public. In the absence of a vaccine, this entails that a large proportion of the population be infected to develop immunity that would limit the severity and/or extent of subsequent outbreaks. We argue that adopting such an approach should be avoided for several reasons: There are significant uncertainties about whether achieving herd immunity is possible. If possible, achieving herd immunity would impose a large burden on society. There are gaps in protection, making it difficult to shield the vulnerable. It would defeat the purpose of avoiding harm caused by the virus. Lastly, dozens of countries are showing that containment is possible.


Result 2: uid rvennm2u

FORMATION of HERD IMMUNITY to SARS-CoV-2 in the REGIONS of UZBEKISTAN

6 months after the start of the COVID-19 epidemic in Uzbekistan, a comparative analysis of the reported incidence of COVID-19 and the level of herd immunity to SARS-CoV-2 was carried out The registration of patients with COVID-19 in the country was carried out on the basis of the positive results of the examination for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, using the PCR method To study herd immunity, the WanTai SARS-CoV-2 Ab Rapid test (China) was used to detect total antibodies (IgM and IgG) in blood In the period from August 27, 2020 to September 11, 2020, in all 14 administrative-territorial regions of Uzbekistan, blood samples of 86879 people who sought medical help at an outpatient clinic at their place of residence were tested for the presence of total antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 According to official figures, 0 14% of the population were infected withCOVID-19 The proportion of the population with the presence of specific protective antibodies to the SARS-CoV-2 virus was 23 1% This proves that the actual incidence of COVID-19, on the national average, was at least 165 times higher than officially reported An uneven territorial distribution of the level of herd immunity was revealed All regions were conditionally divided into 3 zones: 1) regions with a high level of herd immunity &gt; 20% (8 regions), 2) regions withan average level of herd immunity 10% (3 regions), 3) regions with a low the level of herd immunity &lt; 10% (3 regions) The degree of population affected in different regions of the county did not depend on the population density in the region, its age and gender composition It was shown that the factors that influenced the intensity of the epidemic process and the formation of the level of herd immunity were the degree of external and internal migration


Result 3: uid khdjsc4r

Strategies for vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 to efficiently bring R<1

With limited availability of vaccines, an efficient use of the limited supply of vaccines in order to achieve herd immunity will be an important tool to combat the wide-spread prevalence of COVID-19. Here, we propose a targeted vaccination approach (EHR) that provides a significant reduction in the necessary number of doses needed achieve herd immunity compared to age-prioritized and random selection vaccination schemes. Using high-fidelity individual-based computer simulations with Oslo, Norway as an example, we find that for a community reproductive number in a setting where R=1.4 without population immunity, the EHR method reaches herd immunity at only 15% of the population vaccinated, whereas the common age-prioritized approach needs 40%. With R=1.9 in the absence of immunity, EHR needs 30% and age-prioritized needs 52%.


Result 4: uid j74ax7pc

Herd Immunity to COVID-19: Alluring and Elusive

None


Result 5: uid knkobwk7

Data-driven estimate of SARS-CoV-2 herd immunity threshold in populations with individual contact pattern variations

The development of efficacious vaccines has made it possible to envision mass vaccination programs aimed at suppressing SARS-CoV-2 transmission around the world. Here we use a data-driven age-structured multilayer representation of the population of 34 countries to estimate the disease induced immunity threshold, accounting for the contact variability across individuals. We show that the herd immunization threshold of random (un-prioritized) mass vaccination programs is generally larger than the disease induced immunity threshold. We use the model to test two additional vaccine prioritization strategies, transmission-focused and age-based, in which individuals are inoculated either according to their behavior (number of contacts) or infection fatality risk, respectively. Our results show that in the case of a sterilizing vaccine the behavioral strategy achieves herd-immunity at a coverage comparable to the disease-induced immunity threshold, but it appears to have inferior performance in averting deaths than the risk vaccination strategy. The presented results have potential use in defining the effects that the heterogeneity of social mixing and contact patterns has on herd immunity levels and the deployment of vaccine prioritization strategies.


