Is there any scientific evidence that any of the alternative remedies can prevent or cure COVID-19?


Result 1: uid ula2xja1

"Can nature heal and be a possible remedy for the management of Covid- 19

The Covid-19 pandemic has become a major challenge for health care professionals and researchers all over the world. The discovery and development of new drugs require time for passing the quality, safety, and efficacy criteria. Hence the only available option is to rely on herbal or natural remedies as well as other existing ones. Nature has its healing power and has the remedy for all the ailments from which life on earth is struggling. For this pandemic situation also, nature should have created a remedy but finding a loophole is in the hands of our researchers. In this hypothesis, a novel combination strategy is introduced with the existing drugs such as hydroxychloroquine and flavonoid in a volatile liquid-based Nanoformulation incorporated into an inhaler as a possible remedy for the management of coronavirus infection. The synergistic activity of this combination shall pave the way for an effective therapeutic strategy for the treatment of COVID- 19 symptoms.


Result 2: uid lsu74qun

Who Gets Cured? COVID-19 and Developing a Critical Medical Sociology and Anthropology of Cure

None


Result 3: uid leha2848

The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Scientific Publishing

None


Result 4: uid 6frsc4xs

Effectiveness of Using an Instructional Video in Teaching Light-Curing Technique

PURPOSE: To investigate dental students’ ability to deliver satisfactory amounts of irradiance and radiant exposure to simulated cavities by teaching the light-curing technique using instructional video compared to verbal instructions. METHODS: Students attended the didactic light-curing lecture explaining the light-curing technique. Participants were divided into two groups (n=60). Each participant light-cured a class III and a class I simulated cavities with sensors built-in a Managing Accurate Resin Curing-Patient Simulator (MARC-PS) system, using a multiple-emission-peak light-emitting-diode unit. Each student either 1) watched an instructional video (V) showing the light-curing technique, or 2) received individual verbal instruction (I). The light-curing performance, in terms of the mean irradiance and radiant exposure, was recorded. Each student performed light-curing again on the simulated cavities. Students’ feedback for the corresponding teaching method was collected. Comparisons between before and after each instructional method were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Comparisons between both instructional methods were analyzed using a Mann–Whitney U-test (α=0.05). RESULTS: The students’ light-curing performance improved after both methods, as observed on the MARC-PS laptop monitor. The mean irradiance values were anterior-V=1280.6 (183.2), anterior-I=1318.0 (143.5), posterior-V=1337.5 (181.1), posterior-I=1317.6 (248.2) mW/cm(2). The mean radiant exposure values were for anterior-V=13.5 (2.7), anterior-I=13.3 (1.6), posterior-V=13.7 (1.9), posterior-I=13.7 (2.5) J/cm(2). No significant difference was found between both instruction methods. Students reported that each method was effective. CONCLUSION: Using V was comparable to I and an effective tool for teaching the light-curing technique per the students’ ability to deliver sufficient amounts of irradiance and radiant exposure to simulated cavities.


Result 5: uid d1v945j7

COVID-19 and the generation of novel scientific knowledge: Evidence-based decisions and data sharing

RATIONALE, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted every facet of society, including medical research. This paper is the second part of a series of articles that explore the intricate relationship between the different challenges that have hindered biomedical research and the generation of novel scientific knowledge during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the first part of this series, we demonstrated that, in the context of COVID-19, the scientific community has been faced with numerous challenges with respect to (1) finding and prioritizing relevant research questions and (2) choosing study designs that are appropriate for a time of emergency. METHODS: During the early stages of the pandemic, research conducted on hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) sparked several heated debates with respect to the scientific methods used and the quality of knowledge generated. Research on HCQ is used as a case study in both papers. The authors explored biomedical databases, peer-reviewed journals, pre-print servers and media articles to identify relevant literature on HCQ and COVID-19, and examined philosophical perspectives on medical research in the context of this pandemic and previous global health challenges. RESULTS: This second paper demonstrates that a lack of research prioritization and methodological rigour resulted in the generation of fleeting and inconsistent evidence that complicated the development of public health guidelines. The reporting of scientific findings to the scientific community and general public highlighted the difficulty of finding a balance between accuracy and speed. CONCLUSIONS: The COVID-19 pandemic presented challenges in terms of (3) evaluating evidence for the purpose of making evidence-based decisions and (4) sharing scientific findings with the rest of the scientific community. This second paper demonstrates that the four challenges outlined in the first and second papers have often compounded each other and have contributed to slowing down the creation of novel scientific knowledge during the COVID-19 pandemic.


