How do  mutations in SARS-CoV-2 impact its infectivity and antigenicity?


Result 1: uid id099vcu

Lung organoid simulations for modelling and predicting the effect of mutations on SARS-CoV-2 infectivity

The global pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus continues to spread. Infection with SARS- CoV-2 causes COVID-19, a disease of variable severity. Mutation has already altered the SARS-CoV-2 genome from its original reported sequence and continued mutation is highly probable. These mutations can: (i) have no significant impact (they are silent), (ii) result in a complete loss or reduction of infectivity, or (iii) induce increase in infectivity. Physical generation, for research purposes, of viral mutations that could enhance infectivity are controversial and highly regulated. The primary purpose of this project was to evaluate the ability of the DeepNEU machine learning stem-cell simulation platform to enable rapid and efficient assessment of the potential impact of viral loss-of-function (LOF) and gain-of-function (GOF) mutations on SARS-CoV-2 infectivity. Our data suggest that SARS-CoV-2 infection can be simulated in human alveolar type lung cells. Simulation of infection in these lung cells can be used to model and assess the impact of LOF and GOF mutations in the SARS-CoV2 genome. We have also created a four- factor infectivity measure: the DeepNEU Case Fatality Rate (dnCFR). dnCFR can be used to assess infectivity based on the presence or absence of the key viral proteins (NSP3, Spike-RDB, N protein, and M protein). dnCFR was used in this study, not to only assess the impact of different mutations on SARS-CoV2 infectivity, but also to categorize the effects of mutations as loss of infectivity or gain of infectivity events.


Result 2: uid 4evgbl5g

Functional alterations caused by mutations reflect evolutionary trends of SARS-CoV-2

Since the first report of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in December 2019, the COVID-19 pandemic has spread rapidly worldwide. Due to the limited virus strains, few key mutations that would be very important with the evolutionary trends of virus genome were observed in early studies. Here, we downloaded 1809 sequence data of SARS-CoV-2 strains from GISAID before April 2020 to identify mutations and functional alterations caused by these mutations. Totally, we identified 1017 nonsynonymous and 512 synonymous mutations with alignment to reference genome NC_045512, none of which were observed in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein. On average, each of the strains could have about 1.75 new mutations each month. The current mutations may have few impacts on antibodies. Although it shows the purifying selection in whole-genome, ORF3a, ORF8 and ORF10 were under positive selection. Only 36 mutations occurred in 1% and more virus strains were further analyzed to reveal linkage disequilibrium (LD) variants and dominant mutations. As a result, we observed five dominant mutations involving three nonsynonymous mutations C28144T, C14408T and A23403G and two synonymous mutations T8782C, and C3037T. These five mutations occurred in almost all strains in April 2020. Besides, we also observed two potential dominant nonsynonymous mutations C1059T and G25563T, which occurred in most of the strains in April 2020. Further functional analysis shows that these mutations decreased protein stability largely, which could lead to a significant reduction of virus virulence. In addition, the A23403G mutation increases the spike-ACE2 interaction and finally leads to the enhancement of its infectivity. All of these proved that the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 is toward the enhancement of infectivity and reduction of virulence.


Result 3: uid c1fkhcja

SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding mutations and antibody mediated immunity

SARS-CoV-2 mutations can impact infectivity, viral load, and overall morbidity/mortality during infection. In this analysis, we look at the mutational landscape of the SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain, a structure that is antigenic and allows for viral binding to the host. We analyze 104193 GISAID sequences acquired on October 15th, 2020 with a majority of sequences (96%) containing point mutations. We report high frequency mutations with improved binding affinity to ACE2 including S477N, N439K, V367F, and N501Y and address the potential impact of RBD mutations on antibody binding. The high frequency S477N mutation is present in 6.7% of all SARS-CoV-2 sequences, co-occurs with D614G, and is currently present in 14 countries. To address RBD-antibody interactions we take a subset of human derived antibodies and define their interacting residues using PDBsum. Our analysis shows that adaptive immunity against SARS-CoV-2 enlists broad coverage of the RBD suggesting that antibody mediated immunity should be sufficient to resolve infection in the presence of RBD point mutations that conserve structure.


Result 4: uid l4hueltv

Global and Local Mutations in Bangladeshi SARS-CoV-2 Genomes

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) warrants comprehensive investigations of publicly available Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) genomes to gain new insight about their epidemiology, mutations, and pathogenesis. Nearly 0.4 million mutations are identified so far among the ∼60,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomic sequences. In this study, we compared a total of 371 SARS-CoV-2 published whole genomes reported from different parts of Bangladesh with 467 sequences reported globally to understand the origin of viruses, possible patterns of mutations, and availability of unique mutations. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that SARS-CoV-2 viruses might have transmitted through infected travelers from European countries, and the GR clade was found as predominant in Bangladesh. Our analyses revealed 4604 mutations at the RNA level including 2862 missense mutations, 1192 synonymous mutations, 25 insertions and deletions and 525 other types of mutation. In line with the global trend, D614 G mutation in spike glycoprotein was predominantly high (98%) in Bangladeshi isolates. Interestingly, we found the average number of mutations in ORF1ab, S, ORF3a, M, and N were significantly higher (p < 0.001) for sequences containing the G614 variant compared to those having D614. Previously reported frequent mutations, such as R203K, D614G, G204R, P4715L and I300F at protein levels were also prevalent in Bangladeshi isolates. Additionally, 34 unique amino acid changes were revealed and categorized as originating from different cities. These analyses may increase our understanding of variations in SARS-CoV-2 virus genomes, circulating in Bangladesh and elsewhere.


Result 5: uid q8as3iin

A computational approach to evaluate the combined effect of SARS-CoV-2 RBD mutations and ACE2 receptor genetic variants on infectivity: The COVID-19 host-pathogen nexus

SARS-CoV-2 infectivity is largely determined by the virus Spike protein binding to the ACE2 receptor. Meanwhile, marked infection rate differences were reported between populations and individuals. To understand the disease dynamic, we developed a computational approach to study the implications of both SARS-CoV-2 RBD mutations and ACE2 polymorphism on the stability of the virus-receptor complex. We used the 6LZG PDB RBD/ACE2 3D model, the mCSM platform, the LigPlot+ and PyMol software to analyze the data on SARS-CoV-2 mutations and ACE variants retrieved from GISAID and Ensembl/GnomAD repository. We observed that out of 351 RBD point mutations, 83% destabilizes the complex according to free energy (ΔΔG) differences. We also spotted variations in the patterns of polar and hydrophobic interactions between the mutations occurring in 15 out of 18 contact residues. Similarly, comparison of the effect on the complex stability of different ACE2 variants showed that the pattern of molecular interactions and the complex stability varies also according to ACE2 polymorphism. We infer that it is important to consider both ACE2 variants and circulating SARS-CoV-2 RBD mutations to assess the stability of the virus-receptor association and evaluate infectivity. This approach might offers a good molecular ground to mitigate the virus spreading.


