How clean Is the air in passenger aircrafts and what are the COVID-19 risk reduction steps for airports and airlines?


Result 1: uid y208td39

[Economic Policy Implications of the COVID-19 Pandemic in Air Transport

global air transport passenger traffic has been particularly affected by measures to combat COVID-19 Since February 2020, both the number of global passengers and passenger flight kilometers has decreased worldwide - in Western Europe by about 80 % by the end of 2020 These developments have caused financial losses for both airlines and airports worldwide, critically threatening the existence of a large number of these companies As the industry is of great economic importance, special government support measures could contribute to the economic recovery of the aviation industry However, not only should certain companies be supported, but the support measures should be linked to defined and transparent criteria Publisher: Abstract available from the publisher ger


Result 2: uid 74p81yni

Wirtschaftspolitische Implikationen der COVID-19-Pandemie im Luftverkehr

global air transport passenger traffic has been particularly affected by measures to combat COVID-19. Since February 2020, both the number of global passengers and passenger flight kilometers has decreased worldwide — in Western Europe by about 80 % by the end of 2020. These developments have caused financial losses for both airlines and airports worldwide, critically threatening the existence of a large number of these companies. As the industry is of great economic importance, special government support measures could contribute to the economic recovery of the aviation industry. However, not only should certain companies be supported, but the support measures should be linked to defined and transparent criteria.


Result 3: uid 19nxkjx7

Probability and Estimated Risk of SARS-CoV-2 Transmission in the Air Travel System: A Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis

As an emerging virus, SARS-CoV-2 and the risk of transmission during air travel is of high interest. This paper estimates the probability of an infectious index passenger in the air travel system transmitting the SARS-CoV-2 virus to a fellow passenger during air travel. Literature was reviewed from May-September 2020 to identify COVID-19 cases related to the air travel system. The studies were limited to publicly available literature for passengers starting in January 2020; studies on other persons such as flight crews were not reviewed. A novel quantitative approach was developed to estimate air travel transmission risk that considers secondary cases, the overall air travel passenger population, and two correction factors for asymptomatic transmission and underreporting. There were at least 2866 index infectious passengers documented to have passed through the air travel system in a 1.4 billion passenger population. With correction factors, the global risk of transmission during air travel is 1:1.7 million. Uncertainty in the correction factors and a 95% credible interval indicate risk ranges from 1 case for every 712,000 travelers to 1 case for every 8 million travelers. The risk of COVID-19 transmission on an aircraft is low, even with infectious persons onboard.


Result 4: uid ixfkppy6

Proximity to International Airports and Early Transmission of COVID-19 in the United States—An Epidemiological Assessment of the Geographic Distribution of 490,000 Cases

BACKGROUND: Identifying hotspots in a pandemic is essential for early containment. In the context of the rapid global dissemination of the Covid-19 pandemic, describing viral infection rates in relation to international air travel early during the pandemic can help inform future public health policy. The objective of this study is to determine whether proximity to an international airport predicted higher infection rates during the early phase of the Covid-19 pandemic in the United States (US). METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, the authors examined the incidence of Covid-19 in areas near US international airports in the first weeks after detection of Covid-19 in all 50 states, using publicly available county-level incidence of Covid-19 data. They performed a multiple regression to determine the relative effects of population density and air traffic in the Counties Containing Airports (CCA) and the number of Covid-19 cases, and determined the odds of Covid-19 in cities near airports and CCA compared to the rest of the state. RESULTS: Multiple regression analysis revealed that air traffic was significantly correlated with Covid-19 cases during the initial phase of pandemic while population density was not significantly correlated. Three weeks into the pandemic, the pooled odds of Covid-19 cases in CCA was 2.66 (95%CI [2.64, 2.68], p < 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: The counties in the US containing international airports represented initial hotspots for Covid-19 transmission. Early public health containment efforts focused on these areas may help mitigate disease transmission during future similar novel respiratory virus epidemics.


Result 5: uid k0mdjzzb

Investigating and Identifying Critical Airports for Controlling Infectious Diseases Outbreaks

The enormous economic impact of air transportation networks on a local, national, and international level has created an interest for further investments and increased the complexity of the global air transport network. The increased number of worldwide airport passengers and of the aircraft movements and also of the international airport cargo shipments is evident. Therefore, the functionality of this complex air transport network is very important and requires to be investigated and evaluated for identifying the airports that appear to be critical to this network. However, besides the economic benefits that air transport network is offering in local, national and international level through their services (shipments of goods and transport of passengers) play an ever-increasing role in safeguarding global health security. This paper investigated the global air transport network for identifying the airports that may constitute a public health event of international concern from infectious diseases (e.g. COVID-19). In detail, critical airports, in terms of centrality measures (e.g. Closeness, Degree, Betweenness, and Page Rank Centrality) were identified and addressed by pointing them to global authorities for suggesting and implementing routine prevention and control measures for possible future disease outbreaks.


