What COVID-19 vaccine distribution plans are fair and  will have the most impact?


Result 1: uid a3pcgilw

The commitment for fair distribution of COVID‐19 vaccine among all countries of the world

None


Result 2: uid 2zn9g8ak

Getting Everyone to the Fair: Supporting Teachers in Broadening Participation in Science and Engineering Fairs

Science and Engineering (S&E) fairs are a valuable educational activity and are believed to increase students’ engagement and learning in science and engineering. However, due to differences in resources, many schools do not implement fairs to achieve these benefits for their students. This study reports the findings of a program intended to increase the participation of students from low-achieving and under-resourced schools in a regional fair program that feeds into the international fair competition. We found that the number of schools and projects participating in our regional fair increased dramatically since the start of the program. Teachers had mostly positive expectations for the project and expressed buy-in for the effort the project would take. They recruited a diverse pool of students to participate in the school fairs. Quasi-experimental methods allowed us to explore the impact of completing S&E fairs on student gains on science self-efficacy, interest and value perceptions. Controlling for pre-existing differences in these attitudes, we found that students not completing projects showed declines in their science attitudes during the year. Students who completed projects maintained similar attitudes, while those whose projects advanced to the regional fair had substantial gains on all three variables. It is unknown whether this gain can be attributed to the experience of engaging with a quality project, from being the kind of student who completes a quality project, or some other factor. Future research with greater experimental control could address these questions.


Result 3: uid 7yorr49e

The global distribution of COVID-19 vaccine: The role of macro-socioeconomics measures

Since coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) has continued to spread globally, many countries have progressed clinical trials and started vaccinations at the end of December 2020. This report aims to analyze the association of COVID-19 vaccine distribution and two macro-socioeconomics measures, including human development index (HDI) and Gross domestic product (GDP), among 25 countries till the first week of February 2021. Our results indicate that a higher GDP per Capita is positively associated with higher COVID-19 vaccine distribution. However, UAE and Israel have more successful vaccine distribution outcomes regardless of their GDP. In addition, the result shows HDI does not have a significant relationship with vaccine distribution. Although these macro-socioeconomic measures may be counted as a vital indicator for vaccine distribution, other factors may play roles in vaccine distribution, including well-developed health infrastructure, a centralized political system, and population size.


Result 4: uid vi7f1dig

Considerations for fair prioritization of COVID-19 vaccine and its mandate among healthcare personnel

With current COVID-19 vaccine demand outweighing supply and the emergency authorization/rollout of three novel vaccines in the United States, discussions continue regarding fair prioritization among various groups for this scarce resource. The U.S. federal government's recommended vaccination schedule, meant to assist states with vaccine allocation, demonstrates fair ethical considerations, however, difficulties remain comparing various groups to determine fair vaccine access and distribution. Although strides have been taken to analyse risks versus benefits of early vaccination across certain high-risk populations, prioritizing vulnerable populations versus essential workers remains challenging for multiple reasons. Similarly, as COVID-19 vaccine allocation and distribution continues in the U.S. and in other countries, topics that require continued consideration include sub-prioritization among currently prioritized groups, prioritization among vulnerable groups disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, like ethnic minorities, and holistic comparisons between groups who might receive various and disparate benefits from vaccination. Although all current COVID-19 vaccines are emergency authorization use only and a vaccine-mandate would be considered only once these vaccines are licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, future vaccination policies require time and deliberation. Similarly, given current vaccine hesitancy, mandatory vaccination of certain groups, like healthcare personnel, may need to be considered when these vaccines are licensed, especially if voluntary vaccination proves insufficient. Continued discussions regarding risks versus benefits of mandatory COVID-19 vaccination and the unique role of healthcare personnel in providing a safe healthcare environment could lead to better deliberation regarding potential policies. This commentary aims to address both questions of fair prioritization and sub-prioritization of various groups, as well as ethical considerations for mandatory COVID-19 vaccination among healthcare personnel.


Result 5: uid wmnh9hai

COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan: An optimal distribution model for high-priority countries

BACKGROUND: The 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has spread rapidly worldwide, and the outbreak of the disease was designated a global pandemic by the World Health Organization. Such outbreaks would certainly be catastrophic for some of the best-ranked health systems and would be more catastrophic in countries with more fragile health systems. Accordingly, the World Health Organization and other organizations have been appealing to donor countries to support a rapid response plan. The primary objectives of this response plan are to appeal for funds from donors and to distribute these funds to the most affected countries based on the requirements. METHODS: In this study, we developed a mathematical model to provide initial insights into the efficient and equitable distribution of urgent funds to high-priority countries. Three phases were proposed for the construction of this mathematical model. In the first phase, the final epidemic sizes in all the target countries were predicted by using three epidemiological models. In the second phase, the urgent requirements for each country were estimated in parallel with the estimates issued by the humanitarian response plan, based on the size of the epidemic and several other factors. In the third and final phase, a multi-objective optimization model was proposed. The first objective was to maximize the funds from donors to cover all the requirements. The second objective was to minimize the unmet demands by ensuring a fair distribution of the urgent funds based on the requirements of the target countries. RESULTS: Predictions of the basic reproduction numbers and the final epidemic sizes were calculated for all target countries. The urgent requirements were estimated, and the requirements issued by the humanitarian response plan for all target countries were also considered. Moreover, a proposed response plan for the distribution network was demonstrated. Donors must provide urgent funds exceeding US$ 2,608,084,209 to cover at least 40 % of each target country’s requirements. Overall, results demonstrate the importance of an urgent and fair distribution of funds to the target countries to overcome the outbreak of COVID-19. CONCLUSIONS: Rapid responses by donor countries to humanitarian appeals will facilitate the immediate and fair distribution of relief supplies to the poorest countries. This distribution may help to support health systems, restrain the spread of COVID-19, and prevent an unlimited catastrophe.


