What endocrine complications are  linked to COVID-19?


Result 1: uid xg52wp64

Insights into the possible impact of COVID-19 on the endocrine system

The novel 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is a highly transmissible and pathogenic coronavirus. Because of the novelty of the COVID-19 pandemic, few data are available on the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 on the different endocrine glands. Previous studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) have shown a harmful effect on endocrine function. Notably, the angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 receptor, which is the entry route of coronaviruses to the host cell, is widely expressed in the endocrine organs including testis, endocrine pancreas, thyroid, and adrenal, and pituitary glands. Clinical and biochemical manifestations have been recorded in COVID-19 patients resulting in changes in endocrine activities, which were also recorded during the SARS outbreak in 2003. This review aims to explore the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on the function of endocrine glands, based on the latest research in the field.


Result 2: uid qo1c2svl

Relationship between betacoronaviruses and the endocrine system: a new key to understand the COVID-19 pandemic-A comprehensive review

BACKGROUND: A new harmful respiratory disease, called COVID-19 emerged in China in December 2019 due to the infection of a novel coronavirus, called SARS-Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which belongs to the betacoronavirus genus, including SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV. SARS-CoV-2 shares almost 80% of the genome with SARS-CoV-1 and 50% with MERS-CoV. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 proteins share a high degree of homology (approximately 95%) with SARS-CoV-1 proteins. Hence, the mechanisms of SARS-Cov-1 and SARS-Cov-2 infection are similar and occur via binding to ACE2 protein, which is widely distributed in the human body, with a predominant expression in endocrine tissues including testis, thyroid, adrenal and pituitary. PURPOSE: On the basis of expression pattern of the ACE2 protein among different tissues, similarity between SARS-Cov-1 and SARS-Cov-2 and the pathophysiology of COVID-19 disease, we aimed at discussing, after almost one-year pandemic, about the relationships between COVID-19 infection and the endocrine system. First, we discussed the potential effect of hormones on the susceptibility to COVID-19 infection; second, we examined the evidences regarding the effect of COVID-19 on the endocrine system. When data were available, a comparative discussion between SARS and COVID-19 effects was also performed. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search within Pubmed was performed. This review has been conducted according to the PRISMA statements. RESULTS: Among 450, 100 articles were selected. Tissue and vascular damages have been shown on thyroid, adrenal, testis and pituitary glands, with multiple alterations of endocrine function. CONCLUSION: Hormones may affect patient susceptibility to COVID-19 infection but evidences regarding therapeutic implication of these findings are still missing. SARS and COVID-19 may affect endocrine glands and their dense vascularization, impairing endocrine system function. A possible damage of endocrine system in COVID-19 patients should be investigated in both COVID-19 acute phase and recovery to identify both early and late endocrine complications that may be important for patient's prognosis and well-being after COVID-19 infection.


Result 3: uid z997qhhr

Relationship between betacoronaviruses and the endocrine system: a new key to understand the COVID-19 pandemic—A comprehensive review

BACKGROUND: A new harmful respiratory disease, called COVID-19 emerged in China in December 2019 due to the infection of a novel coronavirus, called SARS-Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which belongs to the betacoronavirus genus, including SARS-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV. SARS-CoV-2 shares almost 80% of the genome with SARS-CoV-1 and 50% with MERS-CoV. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 proteins share a high degree of homology (approximately 95%) with SARS-CoV-1 proteins. Hence, the mechanisms of SARS-Cov-1 and SARS-Cov-2 infection are similar and occur via binding to ACE2 protein, which is widely distributed in the human body, with a predominant expression in endocrine tissues including testis, thyroid, adrenal and pituitary. PURPOSE: On the basis of expression pattern of the ACE2 protein among different tissues, similarity between SARS-Cov-1 and SARS-Cov-2 and the pathophysiology of COVID-19 disease, we aimed at discussing, after almost one-year pandemic, about the relationships between COVID-19 infection and the endocrine system. First, we discussed the potential effect of hormones on the susceptibility to COVID-19 infection; second, we examined the evidences regarding the effect of COVID-19 on the endocrine system. When data were available, a comparative discussion between SARS and COVID-19 effects was also performed. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search within Pubmed was performed. This review has been conducted according to the PRISMA statements. RESULTS: Among 450, 100 articles were selected. Tissue and vascular damages have been shown on thyroid, adrenal, testis and pituitary glands, with multiple alterations of endocrine function. CONCLUSION: Hormones may affect patient susceptibility to COVID-19 infection but evidences regarding therapeutic implication of these findings are still missing. SARS and COVID-19 may affect endocrine glands and their dense vascularization, impairing endocrine system function. A possible damage of endocrine system in COVID-19 patients should be investigated in both COVID-19 acute phase and recovery to identify both early and late endocrine complications that may be important for patient’s prognosis and well-being after COVID-19 infection.


Result 4: uid oajdmyta

Perspectives of the European Society of Endocrinology (ESE) and the European Society of Paediatric Endocrinology (ESPE) on rare endocrine disease

PURPOSE: Rare diseases affect <1 in 2000 people. Despite their rarity, they collectively affect ~30 million people across Europe. The aim of this article is to present the view of our European endocrine societies on the care of patients with rare endocrine conditions. METHODS: We evaluated the current situation of patients with rare endocrine disease and present the joint views of the European Society for Endocrinology (ESE) and the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology (ESPE) on how the endocrine disciplines can support and contribute to a better health of patients with rare endocrine conditions in Europe. RESULTS: Rare diseases pose many challenges, including early diagnosis and innovative treatment options. Rare endocrine diseases can be found among inherited disorders, cancers, and conditions associated with metabolic disorders such as diabetes, calcium and bone metabolism, lipid metabolism, hypogonadism, and adrenal, pituitary, and thyroid dysfunction. According to the European Registries for Rare Endocrine conditions, there are over 440 distinct rare diseases that affect the endocrine system. Rare endocrine diseases are often chronic and life-threatening. CONCLUSIONS: ESE and ESPE support a strategic plan to address unmet needs in the area of rare endocrine conditions. The EU should continue to evolve and expand its plans for funding European Reference Networks so that they can expand their activities.


Result 5: uid 111p2gt5

Interplay Between Endocrine Disruptors and Immunity: Implications for Diseases of Autoreactive Etiology

The sex-bias of disease susceptibility has remained a puzzling aspect of several autoimmune conditions, including post-infection viral autoimmunity. In the last half of the twentieth century, the incidence rate of female-biased autoimmunity has steadily increased independent of medical advances. This has suggested a role for environmental factors, such as endocrine disrupting chemicals, which have been described to interfere with endocrine signaling. Endocrine involvement in the proper function of innate and adaptive immunity has also been defined, however, these two areas have rarely been reviewed in correlation. In addition, studies addressing the effects of endocrine disruptors have reported findings resulting from a broad range of exposure doses, schedules and models. This experimental heterogeneity adds confusion and may mislead the translation of findings to human health. Our work will normalize results across experiments and provide a necessary summary relevant to human exposure. Through a novel approach, we describe how different categories of ubiquitously used environmental endocrine disruptors interfere with immune relevant endocrine signaling and contribute to autoimmunity. We hope this review will guide identification of mechanisms and concentration-dependent EDC effects important not only for the sex-bias of autoimmunity, but also for other conditions of immune dysfunction, including post-infection autoreactivity such as may arise following severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, Epstein-Barr virus, Herpes Simplex virus.


