What is the duration of protection and immunity to SARS-CoV-2? 


Result 1: uid djs0tmbd

Correlates of protection from SARS-CoV-2 infection

None


Result 2: uid xo0lifix

Immunity to SARS-CoV-2: Lessons Learned

In the year since the emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and with understanding of the etiology of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, it has become clear that most infected individuals achieve some form of immunity against the virus with relatively few reported reinfections. A number of vaccines have already achieved emergency use authorization based on data from large phase 3 field efficacy clinical trials. However, our knowledge about the extent and durability of this immunity, and the breadth of vaccine coverage against SARS-CoV-2 variants is still evolving. In this narrative review, we summarize the latest and rapidly developing understanding of immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infection, including what we have learned about the key antigens of SARS-CoV-2 (i.e., the spike protein and its receptor-binding domain), their importance in vaccine development, the immediate immune response to SARS-CoV-2, breadth of coverage of emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants, contributions of preexisting immunity to related coronaviruses, and duration of immunity. We also discuss lessons from newer approaches, such as systems serology, that provide insights into molecular and cellular immune responses elicited and how they relate to the trajectory of infection, and potentially inform immune correlates of protection. We also briefly examine the limited research literature on immune responses in special populations, such as pregnant women and children.


Result 3: uid b4ewp3d6

Immunity to SARS-CoV-2: Lessons Learned

In the year since the emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and with understanding of the etiology of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, it has become clear that most infected individuals achieve some form of immunity against the virus with relatively few reported reinfections. A number of vaccines have already achieved emergency use authorization based on data from large phase 3 field efficacy clinical trials. However, our knowledge about the extent and durability of this immunity, and the breadth of vaccine coverage against SARS-CoV-2 variants is still evolving. In this narrative review, we summarize the latest and rapidly developing understanding of immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infection, including what we have learned about the key antigens of SARS-CoV-2 (i.e., the spike protein and its receptor-binding domain), their importance in vaccine development, the immediate immune response to SARS-CoV-2, breadth of coverage of emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants, contributions of preexisting immunity to related coronaviruses, and duration of immunity. We also discuss lessons from newer approaches, such as systems serology, that provide insights into molecular and cellular immune responses elicited and how they relate to the trajectory of infection, and potentially inform immune correlates of protection. We also briefly examine the limited research literature on immune responses in special populations, such as pregnant women and children.


Result 4: uid f8ycejy9

SARS-COV-2, can you be over it? Arguments for the Immune passport

Objectives Uncertainty has surrounded the duration of immunity against SARS CoV-2. This uncertainty concerns both the duration of vaccine immunity and the duration of natural immunity. We aim to critically review the information available today, and draw practical conclusions. Methods This is a narrative review of the recently published information on the topic, compared with the knowledge we already have of the behavior of various viral infectious agents. Results It is too early to have any meaningful information on the duration of vaccine immunity against SARS CoV-2. The rate of reinfection is very low. Most of them are due to laboratory errors, to incomplete cure of the primary infection, to the supervening immunodeficiency of the host, or to pre-existing immunodeficiency made evident by the SARS CoV-2 infection. The available studies on the immunology of the infection converge in indicating that it generates a robust and persistent immunity. This behavior does not differ from that of respiratory viruses known to date: in naturally occurring viral respiratory infections, reinfections are exceptional. Conclusions and implications The civil community awaits suggestions from scientists not only to protect the lives of susceptible people, but to be able to safely resume activities made uncertain by the pandemic. From the information we have to date, we suggest that in principle, patients who have already overcome the infection should not be prioritized to the SARS CoV-2 vaccine. Instead, they could be provided with an immunological passport that allows them to resume a normal social life.


Result 5: uid 3xdv2gct

Using mixed-effects modeling to estimate decay kinetics of response to SARS-CoV-2 infection

The duration of natural immunity in response to SARS-CoV-2 is a matter of some debate in the literature at present. For example, in a recent publication characterizing SARS-CoV-2 immunity over time, the authors fit pooled longitudinal data, using fitted slopes to infer the duration of SARS-CoV-2 immunity. In fact, such approaches can lead to misleading conclusions as a result of statistical model-fitting artifacts. To exemplify this phenomenon, we reanalyzed one of the markers (pseudovirus neutralizing titer) in the publication, using mixed-effects modeling, a methodology better suited to longitudinal datasets like these. Our findings showed that the half-life was both longer and more variable than reported by the authors. The example selected by us here illustrates the utility of mixed-effects modeling in provide more accurate estimates of the duration and heterogeneity of half-lives of molecular and cellular biomarkers of SARS-CoV-2 immunity.


