How do cytokine pathways link sleep and immunity to infection and COVID-19?

Result #1: uid 7npjl92i 
Granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor has come of age: From a vaccine adjuvant to antiviral immunotherapy
Abstract: 
 GM-CSF acts as a pro-inflammatory cytokine and a key growth factor produced by several immune cells such as macrophages and activated T cells. In this review, we discuss recent studies that point to the crucial role of GM-CSF in the immune response against infections. Upon induction, GM-CSF activates four main signalling networks including the JAK/STAT, PI3K, MAPK, and NFκB pathways. Many of these transduction pathways such as JAK/STAT signal via proteins commonly activated with other antiviral signalling cascades, such as those induced by IFNs. GM-CSF also helps defend against respiratory infections by regulating alveolar macrophage differentiation and enhancing innate immunity in the lungs. Here, we also summarize the numerous clinical trials that have taken advantage of GM-CSF's mechanistic attributes in immunotherapy. Moreover, we discuss how GM-CSF is used as an adjuvant in vaccines and how its activity is interfered with to reduce inflammation such as in the case of COVID-19. This review brings forth the current knowledge on the antiviral actions of GM-CSF, the associated signalling cascades, and its application in immunotherapy. 

Result #2: uid 2z6s93ja 
Janus kinase signaling as risk factor and therapeutic target for severe SARS-CoV-2 infection
Abstract: 
 Cytokine signaling, especially interferon (IFN) signaling is closely linked to several aspects of SARS-CoV-2 infection. During initial SARS-CoV-2 infection, symptomatic patients present with impaired type I/III IFN-mediated antiviral responses. Interestingly, IFNs regulate the cellular entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2 on epithelial and endothelial cells. As reported recently, critically ill COVID-19 patients show genetic polymorphisms in one IFN receptor gene (IFNRA2) and in a gene locus near the Janus kinase (JAK) TYK2, which is key for IFN, Interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23 signaling and T helper (Th) 1/Th17 cell-mediated antiviral immune responses. In the advanced stage of the disease, critically ill COVID-19 patients develop a cytokine storm where many inflammatory mediators using the JAK/STAT signaling pathway like IL-6, IFN-γ, the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) or IL-2 and chemokines result in an influx of macrophages and neutrophils damaging the lung tissue. The knowledge on the cytokine and JAK/STAT signaling pathways in severe COVID-19 disease explains the promising first results with JAK inhibitors like baricitinib, which not only dampen the inflammation but in the case of baricitinib also affect virus replication and endocytosis in target cells. Here, we summarize the current immunological associations of SARS-CoV-2 infection with cytokine signaling, the JAK/STAT pathway and the current clinical stage of JAK inhibitors for improving severe COVID-19 disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 

Result #3: uid 0fbgukba 
Platelets: 'multiple choice' effectors in the immune response and their implication in COVID-19 thromboinflammatory process
Abstract: 
 Although platelets are traditionally recognized for their central role in hemostasis, the presence of chemotactic factors, chemokines, adhesion molecules, and costimulatory molecules in their granules and membranes indicates that they may play an immunomodulatory role in the immune response, flanking their capacity to trigger blood coagulation and inflammation. Indeed, platelets play a role not only in the innate immune response, through the expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and release of inflammatory cytokines, but also in the adaptive immune response, through expression of key costimulatory molecules and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules capable to activate T cells. Moreover, platelets release huge amounts of extracellular vesicles capable to interact with multiple immune players. The function of platelets thus extends beyond aggregation and implies a multifaceted interplay between hemostasis, inflammation, and the immune response, leading to the amplification of the body's defense processes on one hand, but also potentially degenerating into life-threatening pathological processes on the other. This narrative review summarizes the current knowledge and the most recent updates on platelet immune functions and interactions with infectious agents, with a particular focus on their involvement in COVID-19, whose pathogenesis involves a dysregulation of hemostatic and immune processes in which platelets may be determinant causative agents. 

Result #4: uid 9f0zysbv 
Role of Toll‐like receptors in the pathogenesis of COVID‐19
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS‐CoV‐2), has led to a pandemic since March 2020. The exact pathogenesis of SARS‐CoV‐2 and the role of each component of the innate and adaptive immune system is still unknown. However, available data from other coronavirus families, such as SARS‐CoV and the Middle East respiratory syndrome and also new findings could be useful for a better understanding of SARS‐CoV‐2. Toll‐like receptors (TLR) play an important role in recognition of viral particles and activation of the innate immune system. Activation of TLR pathways leads to secretion of pro‐inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin‐1 (IL‐1), IL‐6, and tumor necrosis factor‐α, as well as type 1 interferon. Different TLRs, like TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR6, TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 are potentially important in COVID‐19 infection. It is also worth mentioning that we should bear in mind both the beneficial and harmful effects of TLR in confronting COVID‐19 infection. TLRs could be a potential target in controlling the infection in the early stages of disease and production of vaccine against SARS‐CoV‐2. 

Result #5: uid j2cmwgov 
MyD88 and beyond: a perspective on MyD88-targeted therapeutic approach for modulation of host immunity
Abstract: 
 ABSTRACT: The continuous emergence of infectious pathogens along with antimicrobial resistance creates a need for an alternative approach to treat infectious diseases. Targeting host factor(s) which are critically involved in immune signaling pathways for modulation of host immunity offers to treat a broad range of infectious diseases. Upon pathogen-associated ligands binding to the Toll-like/ IL-1R family, and other cellular receptors, followed by recruitment of intracellular signaling adaptor proteins, primarily MyD88, trigger the innate immune responses. But activation of host innate immunity strongly depends on the correct function of MyD88 which is tightly regulated. Dysregulation of MyD88 may cause an imbalance that culminates to a wide range of inflammation-associated syndromes and diseases. Furthermore, recent reports also describe that MyD88 upregulation with many viral infections is linked to decreased antiviral type I IFN response, and MyD88-deficient mice showed an increase in survivability. These reports suggest that MyD88 is also negatively involved via MyD88-independent pathways of immune signaling for antiviral type I IFN response. Because of its expanding role in controlling host immune signaling pathways, MyD88 has been recognized as a potential drug target in a broader drug discovery paradigm. Targeting BB-loop of MyD88, small molecule inhibitors were designed by structure-based approach which by blocking TIR–TIR domain homo-dimerization have shown promising therapeutic efficacy in attenuating MyD88-mediated inflammatory impact, and increased antiviral type I IFN response in experimental mouse model of diseases. In this review, we highlight the reports on MyD88-linked immune response and MyD88-targeted therapeutic approach with underlying mechanisms for controlling inflammation and antiviral type I IFN response. HIGHLIGHTS: • Host innate immunity is activated upon PAMPs binding to PRRs followed by immune signaling through TIR domain–containing adaptor proteins mainly MyD88. • Structure-based approach led to develop small-molecule inhibitors which block TIR domain homodimerization of MyD88 and showed therapeutic efficacy in limiting severe inflammation-associated impact in mice. • Therapeutic intervention of MyD88 also showed an increase in antiviral effect with strong type I IFN signaling linked to increased phosphorylation of IRFs via MyD88–independent pathway. • MyD88 inhibitors might be potentially useful as a small-molecule therapeutics for modulation of host immunity against inflammatory diseases and antiviral therapy. • However, prior clinical use of more in-depth efforts should be focused for suitability of the approach in deploying to complex diseases including COPD and COVID-19 in limiting inflammation-associated syndrome to infection. 

