What are the implications of the known COVID-19 reinfection cases for vaccination?

Result #1: uid 7plcytvf
Comprehensive assessment of humoral response after Pfizer BNT162b2 mRNA Covid-19 vaccination: a three-case series
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES Since universal vaccination is a pillar against coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), monitoring anti-SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies is essential for deciphering post-vaccination immune response. METHODS Three healthcare workers received 30 μg BNT162b2 mRNA Covid-19 Pfizer Vaccine, followed by a second identical dose, 21 days afterwards. Venous blood was drawn at baseline and at serial intervals, up to 63 days afterwards, for assessing total immunoglobulins (Ig) anti-RBD (receptor binding domain), anti-S1/S2 and anti-RBD IgG, anti-RBD and anti-N/S1 IgM, and anti-S1 IgA. RESULTS All subjects were SARS-CoV-2 seronegative at baseline. Total Ig anti-RBD, anti-S1/S2 and anti-RBD IgG levels increased between 91 and 368 folds until 21 days after the first vaccine dose, then reached a plateau. The levels raised further after the second dose (by ∼30-, ∼8- and ∼8-fold, respectively), peaking at day 35, but then slightly declining and stabilizing ∼50 days after the first vaccine dose. Anti-S1 IgA levels increased between 7 and 11 days after the first dose, slightly declined before the second dose, after which levels augmented by ∼24-fold from baseline. The anti-RBD and anti-N/S1 IgM kinetics were similar to that of anti-S1 IgA, though displaying substantially weaker increases and modest peaks, only 4- to 7-fold higher than baseline. Highly significant inter-correlation was noted between total Ig anti-RBD, anti-S1/S2 and anti-RBD IgG (all r=0.99), whilst other anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies displayed lower, though still significant, correlations. Serum spike protein concentration was undetectable at all-time points. CONCLUSIONS BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination generates a robust humoral immune response, especially involving anti-SARS-Cov-2 IgG and IgA, magnified by the second vaccine dose. 

Result #2: uid xsrxhm6p 
Antibody response to first BNT162b2 dose in previously SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #3: uid pziwd2cp 
Effect Monitoring and Insights from Vaccination program of Healthcare Workforce from a tertiary level hospital in India against SARS-CoV-2
Abstract: 
 The Oxford-Astra Zeneca COVID 19 vaccine (AZD1222 or ChAdOx1) is an important part of the global vaccine roll-out against SARS-CoV-2, and a locally manufactured version (Covishield by Serum Institute, Pune, India) is the most commonly used vaccine in India. The vaccination program started in January 2021 and here we report effectiveness of the first dose of Covishield in generating antibody response and its kinetics. We further report differences in the quantitative antibody response amongst individuals who had pre-existing antibodies to SARS CoV2 and those who did not. In a group of 135 healthcare workers administered Covishield, we measured antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 directed against the spike protein (S-antigen) using Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S quantitative antibody detection kit (Roche Diagnostics) at days 0, 7, 14, and 28. In 44 subjects (32.5%) who had already developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 at day 0 (before immunization), it was observed that antibody response was significantly higher at each time point, with the maximum increase seen between days 0 and 7. In contrast the sero-negative group (n=91) started developing antibody response only after 14 days or later. Three sero-negative individuals did not develop any antibody response even at day 28 of vaccination. It is noted that median antibody response at 28 days in seronegative subjects was similar to that of seropositive subjects at baseline (day 0) and was on a rising trajectory. Our data suggests that ChAdOx1 is highly immunogenic, particularly so where previous SARS CoV2 antibody-response is established. Given the high background seropositivity in India, this may be useful in determining optimal timing of the second dose during mass immunization within the constraints of vaccine supply and administration. 

Result #4: uid m5a0u396 
Antibody Response to the BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine in Subjects with Prior SARS-CoV-2 Infection
Abstract: 
 Although antibody levels progressively decrease following SARS-CoV-2 infection, the immune memory persists for months. Thus, individuals who naturally contracted SARS-CoV-2 are expected to develop a more rapid and sustained response to COVID-19 vaccines than naïve individuals. In this study, we analyzed the dynamics of the antibody response to the BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19 vaccine in six healthcare workers who contracted SARS-CoV-2 in March 2020, in comparison to nine control subjects without a previous infection. The vaccine was well tolerated by both groups, with no significant difference in the frequency of vaccine-associated side effects, with the exception of local pain, which was more common in previously infected subjects. Overall, the titers of neutralizing antibodies were markedly higher in response to the vaccine than after natural infection. In all subjects with pre-existing immunity, a rapid increase in anti-spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) IgG antibodies and neutralizing antibody titers was observed one week after the first dose, which seemed to act as a booster. Notably, in previously infected individuals, neutralizing antibody titers 7 days after the first vaccine dose were not significantly different from those observed in naïve subjects 7 days after the second vaccine dose. These results suggest that, in previously infected people, a single dose of the vaccine might be sufficient to induce an effective response. 

Result #5: uid 7xhd76fr 
Robust antibody responses in 70–80-year-olds 3 weeks after the first or second doses of Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, United Kingdom, January to February 2021
Abstract: 
 Sera were collected from 185 adults aged ≥ 70 years in London to evaluate the immune response to COVID-19 vaccines. A single dose of Pfizer/BioNtech vaccine resulted in > 94% seropositivity after 3 weeks in naïve individuals using the Roche Spike antibody assay, while two doses produced very high spike antibody levels, significantly higher than convalescent sera from mild-to-moderate PCR-confirmed adult cases. Our findings support the United Kingdom’s approach of prioritising the first dose and delaying the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. 

