May delaying the onset of adaptive immune responses during the early phase of infections be a potential treatment for COVID‐19?

Result #1: uid rs8k0x8d 
Soluble Spike DNA Vaccine Provides Long-Term Protective Immunity against SARS-CoV-2 in Mice and Nonhuman Primates
Abstract: 
 The unprecedented and rapid spread of SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2) has motivated the need for a rapidly producible and scalable vaccine. Here, we developed a synthetic soluble SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) DNA-based vaccine candidate, GX-19. In mice, immunization with GX-19 elicited not only S-specific systemic and pulmonary antibody responses but also Th1-biased T cell responses in a dose-dependent manner. GX-19-vaccinated nonhuman primates seroconverted rapidly and exhibited a detectable neutralizing antibody response as well as multifunctional CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses. Notably, when the immunized nonhuman primates were challenged at 10 weeks after the last vaccination with GX-19, they had reduced viral loads in contrast to non-vaccinated primates as a control. These findings indicate that GX-19 vaccination provides a durable protective immune response and also support further development of GX-19 as a vaccine candidate for SARS-CoV-2. 

Result #2: uid jlwhvidw 
A replication competent adenovirus-vectored influenza vaccine induces durable systemic and mucosal immunity
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Immunization with replication-competent recombinant vectors provides exposure to transgene-encoded antigens in the context of inflammation that may drive more potent and durable immunity compared to non-replicating vaccines. To understand the features of a replicating vaccine that drive such responses we tested a replication-competent adenovirus type 4 encoding influenza virus H5 hemagglutinin (Ad4-H5-Vtn) administered by an oral capsule or via a tonsillar swab or nasal spray. METHODS Viral shedding from the nose, mouth, and rectum was measured by PCR and culture. H5-specific IgG and IgA antibodies were measured by bead array binding assays. Serum antibodies were measured by a pseudovirus entry inhibition assay (PVEI), microneutralization (MN), and hemagglutinin inhibition (HAI). RESULTS Ad4-H5-Vtn DNA was shed from most upper respiratory tract (URT)-immunized volunteers for 2-4 weeks, but cultured from only 60% of participants with a median duration of one day. Ad4-H5-Vtn vaccination induced increases in H5-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the peripheral blood and IgG and IgA in nasal, cervical and rectal secretions. URT immunizations induced high levels of serum neutralizing antibodies (NAb) to H5 which remained stable at week 26. The duration of viral shedding correlated with the magnitude of the NAb response at week 26. Adverse events (AE) were mild, and peak NAb titer was associated with overall AE frequency or duration. Serum neutralizing antibody titers could be boosted to very high levels 2-5 years after Ad4-H5-Vtn vaccination with recombinant H5 or inactivated split H5N1 vaccine. CONCLUSION Replicating Ad4 delivered to the URT causes prolonged exposure to antigen, drives durable systemic and mucosal immunity, and is a promising platform for the induction of immunity against viral surface glycoprotein targets. TRIAL REGISTRATION ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01443936, NCT01806909. FUNDING Intramural and Extramural Research Programs of the NIAID, NIH; and the Centers of Influenza Virus Research and SurveillanceFunding. Intramural and Extramural Research Programs of the NIAID, NIH; and the Centers of Influenza Virus Research and Surveillance. 

Result #3: uid r5spkqic 
SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein intranasal inoculation induces local and systemic T cell responses in mice
Abstract: 
 SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein has been proposed as a good vaccine target. N-specific T cells were observed in SARS-CoV-2 N immunized mice and COVID-19 convalescents. It is of importance to identify the T cell responses triggered by SARS-CoV-2 N protein. Intradermal immunization with SARS-CoV N protein was demonstrated to elicit non-protective T cell responses which may be avoided by intranasal vaccination. Therefore, we conducted intranasal vaccination of BALB/c mice with recombinant adenovirus type-5 expressing SARS-CoV-2 N protein. Such procedure induced CD8 T cell responses in the lung. Meanwhile CD4 T cell responses were observed in the spleen, which was associated with robust antibody production. Our study further supports the notion that SARS-CoV-2 N protein can work as a target for vaccine development. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 

Result #4: uid 455fxg3s 
Adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2
Abstract: 
 This review focuses on adaptive immune responses against SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19. A great deal of work has been accomplished in a very short period of time to describe adaptive immune responses and to ascertain their roles in determining the course of infection. As with other viral infections, SARS-CoV-2 elicits both antibody and T-cell responses. Whereas antibody responses are likely effective in preventing infection and may participate in controlling infection once established, it is less clear whether or not they play a role in pathogenesis. T cells are likely involved in controlling established infection, but a pathogenic role is also possible. Longer term evaluation is necessary to determine the durability of protective immune responses. 

Result #5: uid xu5568t6 
The conundrum of current anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccines
Abstract: 
 The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic has given rise to the urgent need for vaccines and therapeutic interventions to address the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in development, and those being distributed currently, have been designed to induce neutralizing antibodies using the spike protein of the virus as an immunogen. However, the immunological correlates of protection against the virus remain unknown. This raises questions about the efficacy of current vaccination strategies. In addition, safety profiles of several vaccines seem inadequate or have not yet been evaluated under controlled experimentation. Here, evidence from the literature regarding the efforts already made to identify the immunological correlates of protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection are summarized. Furthermore, key biological features of most of the advanced vaccines and considerations regarding their safety and expected efficacy are highlighted. 

