Which COVID-19 vaccine trials were paused and what were the health safety concerns?

Result #1: uid w0wkiw7r 
Re-birth in a Covid hospital: a point of view
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Since COVID-19 was declared a pandemic governments have taken actions to limit the transmission of the virus such as lockdown measures and reorganization of the local Health System. Quarantine measures have influenced pregnant women's daily lives. The aim of this study is to understand the impact of the changes imposed by COVID-19 emergency on the wellbeing of pregnant women and how the transformation of Schiavonia Hospital into a dedicated Covid Hospital affected their pregnancy experience. METHODS A cross-sectional survey was conducted. Pregnant women who gave birth in Schiavonia Hospital during the period May-September 2020 have been included. The assessment examined clinical characteristics, attitudes in relation to the pandemic and how it affected birth plans, perception of information received and attitudes regards giving birth in a Covid Hospital. RESULTS 104 women responded to the survey, with an enrolment rate of 58%. About the influence of COVID-19 pandemic, 51% of respondents reported changing some aspect of their lifestyle. The identification of Schiavonia hospital as Covid Hospital did not modify the trust in the facility and in the Obstetrics Ward for the 90% of women, in fact for the 85,6% it was the planned Birth Centre since the beginning of pregnancy. The communication was complete and exhaustive for 82,7% of the respondents. CONCLUSIONS Despite the Covid Hospital transformation, the women who came to give birth at Schiavonia Birth Centre rated the healthcare assistance received at high level, evidencing high affection for the structure and the healthcare workers. 

Result #2: uid n8qrx4ns 
COVID-19 Exposure and Family Impact Scales: Factor Structure and Initial Psychometrics
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE In response to the rapidly unfolding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in spring 2020, we developed a caregiver-report measure to understand the extent to which children and families were exposed to events related to COVID-19 and their perceptions of its impact. This article reports on the factor structure and psychometric properties of this measure. METHODS The COVID-19 Exposure and Family Impact Scales (CEFIS) were developed by a multidisciplinary, multi-institutional team using a rapid iterative process. Data from 1805 caregivers recruited from 28 programs at 15 institutions across the United States were collected from May-September 2020. We examined the underlying structure of the CEFIS using exploratory factor analyses and its internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha). RESULTS Participants reported a range of COVID-19-related events (M = 8.71 events of 25). On the bidirectional 4-point impact scale, mean scores were mostly above the midpoint, indicating a slightly negative impact. Cronbach's alpha was excellent for Exposure (α = .80) and Impact (α = .92). Factor analysis identified six factors for Exposure (COVID-19 experiences, Access to essentials, Disruptions to living conditions, Loss of income, Family caregiving and activities, and Designation as an essential worker). There were three factors for Impact (Personal well-being, Family interactions, and Distress). DISCUSSION The CEFIS has strong factors assessing Exposure to events related to COVID-19, and the Impact of these events on families of children in pediatric healthcare. These initial validation data support use of the CEFIS for measuring the effect of the pandemic. 

Result #3: uid 9mqgy1ys 
Rebirth in a COVID hospital: a point of view
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Since COVID-19 was declared a pandemic, governments have taken actions to limit the transmission of the virus such as lockdown measures and reorganization of the local Health System. Quarantine measures have influenced pregnant women's daily lives. The aim of this study was to understand the impact of the changes imposed by COVID-19 emergency on the well-being of pregnant women and how the transformation of Schiavonia Hospital into a dedicated COVID hospital affected their pregnancy experience. METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted. Pregnant women who gave birth in Schiavonia Hospital during the period May-September 2020 have been included. The assessment examined clinical characteristics, attitudes in relation to the pandemic and how it affected birth plans, perception of information received, and attitudes regards giving birth in a COVID hospital. RESULTS: One hundred four women responded to the survey, with an enrolment rate of 58%. About the influence of COVID-19 pandemic, 51% of respondents reported changing some aspect of their lifestyle. The identification of Schiavonia Hospital as COVID hospital did not modify the trust in the facility and in the obstetrics ward for the 90% of women, in fact for the 85.6% it was the planned Birth Center since the beginning of pregnancy. The communication was complete and exhaustive for 82.7% of the respondents. CONCLUSIONS: Despite the COVID hospital transformation, the women who came to give birth at Schiavonia Birth Center rated the healthcare assistance received at high level, evidencing high affection for the structure and the healthcare workers. 

Result #4: uid o34wbcnz 
Estimated SARS-CoV-2 Seroprevalence Among Persons Aged <18 Years — Mississippi, May–September 2020
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #5: uid aucdaqs6 
Evolution of Pathology Patterns in Persons Who Died From COVID-19 in Italy: A National Study Based on Death Certificates
Abstract: 
 Background: In Italy, during the first epidemic wave of 2020, the peak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) mortality was reached at the end of March. Afterward, a progressive reduction was observed until much lower figures were reached during the summer, resulting from the contained circulation of SARS-CoV-2. This study aimed to determine if and how the pathological patterns of the individuals deceased from COVID-19 changed during the phases of epidemic waves in terms of: (i) main cause of death, (ii) comorbidities, and (iii) complications related to death. Methods: Death certificates of persons who died and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, provided by the National Surveillance system, were coded according to ICD rev10. Deaths due to COVID-19 were defined as those in which COVID-19 was the underlying cause of death. Results: The percentage of COVID-19 deaths varied over time. It decreased in the downward phase of the epidemic curve (76.6 vs. 88.7%). In February–April 2020, hypertensive heart disease was mentioned as a comorbidity in 18.5% of death certificates, followed by diabetes (15.9% of cases), ischemic heart disease (13.1%), and neoplasms (12.1%). In May–September, the most frequent comorbidity was neoplasms (17.3% of cases), followed by hypertensive heart disease (14.9%), diabetes (14.8%), and dementia/Alzheimer's disease (11.9%). The most mentioned complications in both periods were pneumonia and respiratory failure with a frequency far higher than any other condition (78.4% in February–April 2020 and 63.7% in May–September 2020). Discussion: The age of patients dying from COVID-19 and their disease burden increased in the May–September 2020 period. A more serious disease burden was observed in this period, with a significantly higher frequency of chronic pathologies. Our study suggests better control of the virus' lethality in the second phase of the epidemic, when the health system was less burdened. Moreover, COVID-19 care protocols had been created in hospitals, and knowledge about the diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19 had improved, potentially leading to more accurate diagnosis and better treatment. All these factors may have improved survival in patients with COVID-19 and led to a shift in mortality to older, more vulnerable, and complex patients. 

