What are the genetic and immunologic underpinnings of severe COVID-19?

Result #1: uid qgvffrb6 
A Homeopathic View of the Influence of Chronic Diseases in the Manifestation of COVID-19
Abstract: 
 COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019) may present variable symptoms among infected individuals, with chronic disease patients appearing as the group most susceptible to present severe pulmonary infection, while having a higher risk of developing complications from the disease. This study demonstrates the relationship between the manifestation of COVID-19 and the presence of chronic miasmatic disease, based on the works of Samuel Hahnemann. The reaction of the individual who previously presented chronic miasmatic disease, when in contact with the stimulus of the epidemic disease, depends on the type of response that the organism was generating in the face of the pre-existing situation: if it is an intense reaction and greater than that which the stimulus of COVID-19 can generate, this individual will not develop the severe form of the epidemic disease; if the reaction is less than that generated by COVID-19, more intense symptoms may appear. Understanding that the presence of a chronic miasmatic disease interferes with the manifestation of COVID-19, which may have repercussions on other organs, can change how one must act on the treatment, as this can alter the individual's health status. 

Result #2: uid nmv0ctdq 
Global Perspectives on Improving Chronic Disease Prevention and Management in Diverse Settings
Abstract: 
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) define chronic diseases as conditions that last 1 year or more and that require ongoing medical attention or limit activities of daily living, or both (1). Chronic diseases may be influenced by a combination of genetics, lifestyle and social behaviors, health care system factors, community influences, and environmental determinants of health (2). These risk factors often coexist and interact with each other. Therefore, a better understanding of determinants of chronic diseases such as tobacco use, unhealthy eating, and physical inactivity stands to benefit from effective strategies for improving primary, secondary, and tertiary disease prevention and management in diverse global settings (3). Strategies to prevent and manage chronic disease outcomes such as diabetes and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) have global commonalities (4-7). The impact of chronic diseases is disproportionately evident in Black and Brown communities (8,9). Chronic disease prevention and management typically focus on behavioral interventions such as healthy eating, increased physical activity, and cessation of unhealthy practices such as tobacco and alcohol use (10-15). In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic added to the fact that chronic diseases disproportionately affect low-resource communities, where many Black and Brown populations live (16,17). COVID-19 demonstrated that chronic disease disparities actually present as preexisting conditions in Black and Brown communities, who are disproportionately affected by COVID-19 outcomes. Although most of the articles in this Preventing Chronic Disease (PCD) collection were published before the pandemic, the insights they present, combined with the racial and ethnic data on the burden of COVID-19 thus far, support this reality. Many researchers and public health practitioners often consider the need to sufficiently address the relationships between chronic diseases and social, behavioral, and community factors (18). Global lessons in the prevention and management of chronic diseases, therefore, can help researchers and practitioners benefit from the shared lessons and experience derived from research and interventions conducted in different parts of the world. There are more than 7 billion people worldwide, who speak diverse languages and who have different nationalities, identities, and health systems. Yet, if we share challenges and opportunities for chronic disease prevention and management, many of the global adversities to improving health and well-being can be ameliorated, which is the purpose of this collection. The authors in this collection share lessons that represent experiences in diverse contexts across countries and regions of the world. 

Result #3: uid 4allst6q 
An Ounce of Prevention Is Still Worth a Pound of Cure, Especially in the Time of COVID-19
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #4: uid o7xt2mfs 
Chronic comorbidities and clinical outcomes in patients with and without COVID-19: a large population-based study using national administrative healthcare open data of Mexico
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was rapidly expanded worldwide within a short period. Its relationship with chronic comorbidities is still unclear. We aimed to determine the effects of chronic comorbidities on clinical outcomes of patients with and without COVID-19. This was an analysis of 65,535 patients with suspicion of viral respiratory disease (38,324 SARS-CoV-2 positive and 27,211 SARS-CoV-2 negative) from January 01 to May 12, 2020 using the national administrative healthcare open data of Mexico. SARS-CoV-2 infection was confirmed by reverse-transcriptase–polymerase-chain-reaction. General characteristics and chronic comorbidities were explored. Clinical outcomes of interest were hospital admission, pneumonia, intensive care unit admission, endotracheal intubation and mortality. Prevalence of chronic comorbidities was 49.4%. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the effect of age, male sex, bronchial asthma, diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease on clinical outcomes was similar for both SARS-CoV-2 positive and negative patients. Adverse clinical outcomes were associated with the time from symptoms onset to medical contact, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension and obesity in SARS-CoV-2 positive patients, but with cardiovascular disease in SARS-CoV-2 negative patients (p value < 0.01 for all comparisons). Chronic comorbidities are commonly found in patients with suspicion of viral respiratory disease. The knowledge of the impact of comorbidities on adverse clinical outcomes can better define those COVID-19 patients at higher risk. The different impact of the specific type of chronic comorbidity on clinical outcomes in patients with and without SARS-CoV-2 infection requires further researches. These findings need confirmation using other data sources. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11739-020-02597-5. 

Result #5: uid 5y206tnj 
The Effects of the Health System Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic on Chronic Disease Management: A Narrative Review
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Individuals with chronic conditions require ongoing disease management to reduce risks of adverse health outcomes. During the COVID-19 pandemic, health care for non-COVID-19 cases was affected due to the reallocation of resources towards urgent care for COVID-19 patients, resulting in inadequate ongoing care for chronic conditions. METHODS: A keyword search was conducted in PubMed, Google Scholar, Science Direct, and Scopus for English language articles published between January 2020 and January 2021. FINDINGS: During the COVID-19 pandemic, in-person care for individuals with chronic conditions have decreased due to government restriction of elective and non-urgent healthcare visits, greater instilled fear over potential COVID-19 exposure during in-person visits, and higher utilization rates of telemedicine compared to the pre-COVID-19 period. Potential benefits of a virtual-care framework during the pandemic include more effective routine disease monitoring, improved patient satisfaction, and increased treatment compliance and follow-up rates. However, more needs to be done to ensure timely and effective access to telemedicine, particularly for individuals with lower digital literacy. Capitation primary care models have been proposed as a more financially-robust approach during the COVID-19 pandemic than fee-for-service primary care models; however, the interplay between different primary models and the health outcomes is still poorly understood and warrants further investigation. Shortages of medication used to manage chronic conditions were also observed at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic due to global supply chain disruptions. Finally, patients with chronic conditions faced lifestyle disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, specifically in physical activity, sleep, stress, and mental health, which need to be better addressed. INTERPRETATION: Overall, this review elucidates the disproportionately greater barriers to primary and specialty care that patients with chronic diseases face during the COVID-19 pandemic and emphasizes the urgent need for better chronic disease management strategies moving forward. 

