What are the interactions between innate and adaptive immune responses in COVID‐19?

Result #1: uid gqycmaeb 
RNA sensors as a mechanism of innate immune evasion among SARS-CoV2, HIV and Nipah viruses
Abstract: 
 Innate immunity is the first line of defence elicited by the host immune system to fight against invading pathogens such as viruses and bacteria. From this elementary immune response, the more complex antigen-specific adaptive responses are recruited to provide a long-lasting memory against the pathogens. Innate immunity gets activated when the host cell utilizes a diverse set of receptors known as pattern recognition receptors (PRR) to recognize the viruses that have penetrated the host and respond with cellular processes like complement system, phagocytosis, cytokine release and inflammation and destruction of NK cells. Viral RNA or DNA or viral intermediate products are recognized by receptors like toll-like receptors(TLRs), nucleotide oligomerization domain(NOD)-like receptors (NLRs) and retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptors (RLRs) thereby, inducing type I interferon response (IFN) and other proinflammatory cytokines in infected cells or other immune cells. But certain viruses can evade the host innate immune response to replicate efficiently, triggering the spread of the viral infection. The present review describes the similarity in the mechanism chosen by viruses from different families -HIV, SARS-CoV2 and Nipah viruses to evade the innate immune response and how efficiently they establish the infection in the host. The review also addresses the stages of developments of various vaccines against these viral diseases and the challenges encountered by the researchers during vaccine development. 

Result #2: uid uwdo18vh 
Influenza infection fortifies local lymph nodes to promote lung-resident heterosubtypic immunity
Abstract: 
 Influenza infection generates tissue-resident memory T cells (TRMs) that are maintained in the lung and can mediate protective immunity to heterologous influenza strains, but the precise mechanisms of local T cell-mediated protection are not well understood. In a murine heterosubtypic influenza challenge model, we demonstrate that protective lung T cell responses derive from both in situ activation of TRMs and the enhanced generation of effector T cells from the local lung draining mediastinal lymph nodes (medLNs). Primary infection fortified the medLNs with an increased number of conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) that mediate enhanced priming of T cells, including those specific for newly encountered epitopes; cDC depletion during the recall response diminished medLN T cell generation and heterosubtypic immunity. Our study shows that during a protective recall response, cDCs in a fortified LN environment enhance the breadth, generation, and tissue migration of effector T cells to augment lung TRM responses. 

Result #3: uid a3i3t6od 
A Single Subcutaneous or Intranasal Immunization with Adenovirus-Based SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine Induces Robust Humoral and Cellular Immune Responses in Mice
Abstract: 
 Optimal vaccines are needed for sustained suppression of SARS-CoV-2 and other novel coronaviruses. Here, we developed a recombinant type 5 adenovirus vector encoding the gene for the SARS-CoV-2 S1 subunit antigen (Ad5.SARS-CoV-2-S1) for COVID-19 immunization and evaluated its immunogenicity in mice. A single immunization with Ad5.SARS-CoV-2-S1 via S.C. injection or I.N delivery induced robust antibody and cellular immune responses. Vaccination elicited significant S1-specific IgG, IgG1, and IgG2a endpoint titers as early as 2 weeks and the induced antibodies were long-lasting. I.N. and S.C. administration of Ad5.SARS-CoV-2-S1 produced S1-specific germinal center B cells in cervical and axillary lymph nodes, respectively. Moreover, I.N. and S.C. immunization evoked significantly greater antigen-specific T-cell responses compared to unimmunized control groups with indications that S.C. injection was more effective than I.N. delivery in eliciting cellular immune responses. Mice vaccinated by either route demonstrated significantly increased virus-specific neutralization antibodies on Week 8 and Week 12 compared to control groups, as well as bone marrow AFC, indicative of long-term immunity. Thus, this Ad5-vectored SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate showed promising immunogenicity following delivery to mice by S.C. and I.N. routes of administration, supporting the further development of Ad-based vaccines against COVID-19 and other infectious diseases for sustainable global immunization programs. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 

Result #4: uid ffaupoet 
HIV mRNA Vaccines—Progress and Future Paths
Abstract: 
 The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic introduced the world to a new type of vaccine based on mRNA encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles (LNPs). Instead of delivering antigenic proteins directly, an mRNA-based vaccine relies on the host’s cells to manufacture protein immunogens which, in turn, are targets for antibody and cytotoxic T cell responses. mRNA-based vaccines have been the subject of research for over three decades as a platform to protect against or treat a variety of cancers, amyloidosis and infectious diseases. In this review, we discuss mRNA-based approaches for the generation of prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines to HIV. We examine the special immunological hurdles for a vaccine to elicit broadly neutralizing antibodies and effective T cell responses to HIV. Lastly, we outline an mRNA-based HIV vaccination strategy based on the immunobiology of broadly neutralizing antibody development. 

Result #5: uid 5aajwfdc 
Adenovirus Vectors: Excellent Tools for Vaccine Development
Abstract: 
 Adenovirus was originally used as a vector for gene therapy. In recent years, with the development of the next-generation vectors with increased safety and high immunogenicity to transgene products, its utility as a vaccine vector has continued to increase. Adenovirus-based vaccines are currently being tested not only to prevent various infectious diseases but also to be applied as cancer vaccines. In this review, I discuss the innate and adaptive aspects of the immunological characteristics of adenovirus vectors and further examine the current status of advanced adenovirus-based vaccine development. Various methods that can overcome the limitations of currently used adenoviruses as vaccine vehicles are also discussed. Through this study, I hope that vaccine development using adenovirus vectors will be expedited and more successful. 

