What measures  could mitigate resurgence of COVID-19?

Result #1: uid y2h950p8 
Managing the risks of making the wrong diagnosis: First, do no harm
Abstract: 
 Appropriate use of diagnostics is important as misdiagnosis may have serious consequences. Confidence in a diagnostic test result depends on the test's accuracy (sensitivity and specificity) in the context of the use-case (who is tested and why) and the prevalence of the condition being investigated. Here, we offer an approach to diagnostics that focusses on the risks and effects of making the wrong diagnosis. We propose 'fitness brackets' for a given test to define the range within which the test is fit-for-purpose, based on the use-case and risk-management principles. We use as exemplars tests for dengue pre-vaccination screening and tests for diagnosing covid-19 in different settings. 

Result #2: uid i18cq673 
COVID 19 - Possible interrelations with respiratory comorbidities caused by occupational exposure to various hazardous bioaerosols. Part II. Clinical course, diagnostics, treatment and prevention
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE The course of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-CoV-2 may be aggravated by bioaerosols containing other viruses, bacteria, and fungi, occurring mainly in the occupational environment. Hence, the diagnostics and treatment of COVID-19 should address such a possibility in the anamnesis, treatment and final recommendations for avoiding of adverse exposure. ABBREVIATED DESCRIPTION OF THE STATE OF KNOWLEDGE As SARS-CoV-2 attacks primarily the respiratory system and the severe manifestation of COVID-19 is interstitial pneumonia, diagnostics should include the following clinical and laboratory examinations: chest X-ray; high resolution computed tomography (HRCT); pulmonary function tests; arterial-blood gas test; genetic tests for the presence of SARS-CoV-2, in the future with the use of highly specific and sensitive nano-based biosensors; tests for the presence of specific immunity against the antigens of microorganisms causing other infectious or allergic pulmonary diseases (in the case of anamnestic indications). Because an universally accepted treatment for COVID-19 does not exist, the hitherto prescribed antiviral and immune-modulating drugs should be used be with caution. In many cases, a better alternative could be a safe supportive therapy, such as supplementation of the diet with probiotics, prebiotics, vitamins and microelements. SUMMARY The most important preventive measures against COVID-19 should include: vaccination; the use of filter or surgical masks; disinfection and sterilization; maintaining of well-functioning ventilation and air conditioning systems; reduction of the community air pollution which has been identified as an important factor increasing the COVID-19 severity. In the choice of preventive measures, the above should be considered for their potential efficacy against other bioaerosols as potential disease-aggravating agents. 

Result #3: uid 693u7pgg 
ASSURED-SQVM diagnostics for COVID-19: addressing the why, when, where, who, what and how of testing
Abstract: 
 Introduction: SARS-CoV-2, the new coronavirus that originated in 2019, continues to impact every aspect of society in a profound manner. Testing will remain an important tool to mitigate the effects of this pandemic as early and accurate diagnosis can lead to appropriate countermeasures to reduce mortality and morbidity. However, testing isn’t a simple yes/no answer as the target and host are complex, the virus is a moving target, there is a plethora of tests that identify different parts of the virus and have their own limits and range of detection, and when prevalence is low, false positives and negatives can be very high. Areas covered: This article covers all the major questions related to COVID-19 diagnostics, the why, when, where, who, what and how of testing, the different types of tests, interpretation of results and the ideal ASSURED-SQVM diagnostic. A comprehensive literature review using all the publicly available databases and government websites and reports was performed. Expert opinion: Diagnostics that meet the ‘ASSURED-SQVM’ (Affordable, Selective and Sensitive, User-friendly, Rapid and Robust, Equipment-free, Deliverable to end-users and additionally, allows for Self-testing, Quantifiable, detects if pathogens are Viable and can detect Multiple pathogens) would make a major impact in our fight against the current pandemic. While a significant majority of researchers focus on developing novel diagnostics that are highly selective and sensitive, it is the opinion of these authors that other aspects of the ASSURED-SQVM principles also be considered early in the development process for widespread use. 

Result #4: uid 535awz4c 
COVID-19 Impact on Diagnostic Innovations: Emerging Trends and Implications
Abstract: 
 Diagnostic testing remains the backbone of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) response, supporting containment efforts to mitigate the outbreak. The severity of this crisis and increasing capacity issues associated with polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based testing, accelerated the development of diagnostic solutions to meet demands for mass testing. The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Innovation Observatory is the national horizon scanning organization in England. Since March, the Innovation Observatory has applied advanced horizon scanning methodologies and tools to compile a diagnostic landscape, based upon data captured for molecular (MDx) and immunological (IDx) based diagnostics (commercialized/in development), for the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. In total we identified and tracked 1608 diagnostics, produced by 1045 developers across 54 countries. Our dataset shows the speed and scale in which diagnostics were produced and provides insights into key periods of development and shifts in trends between MDx and IDx solutions as the pandemic progressed. Stakeholders worldwide required timely and detailed intelligence to respond to major challenges, including testing capacity and regulatory issues. Our intelligence assisted UK stakeholders with assessing priorities and mitigation options throughout the pandemic. Here we present the global evolution of diagnostic innovations devised to meet changing needs, their regulation and trends across geographical regions, providing invaluable insights into the complexity of the COVID-19 phenomena. 

Result #5: uid xq2bi9ah 
Learning from COVID-19 to reimagine tuberculosis diagnosis
Abstract: 
 None 

