How efficient are herd immunity approaches to COVID-19 containment?  

Result #1: uid c65hkay0 
COVID-19: Short term prediction model using daily incidence data
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Prediction of the dynamics of new SARS-CoV-2 infections during the current COVID-19 pandemic is critical for public health planning of efficient health care allocation and monitoring the effects of policy interventions. We describe a new approach that forecasts the number of incident cases in the near future given past occurrences using only a small number of assumptions. METHODS Our approach to forecasting future COVID-19 cases involves 1) modeling the observed incidence cases using a Poisson distribution for the daily incidence number, and a gamma distribution for the series interval; 2) estimating the effective reproduction number assuming its value stays constant during a short time interval; and 3) drawing future incidence cases from their posterior distributions, assuming that the current transmission rate will stay the same, or change by a certain degree. RESULTS We apply our method to predicting the number of new COVID-19 cases in a single state in the U.S. and for a subset of counties within the state to demonstrate the utility of this method at varying scales of prediction. Our method produces reasonably accurate results when the effective reproduction number is distributed similarly in the future as in the past. Large deviations from the predicted results can imply that a change in policy or some other factors have occurred that have dramatically altered the disease transmission over time. CONCLUSION We presented a modelling approach that we believe can be easily adopted by others, and immediately useful for local or state planning. 

Result #2: uid io48dyuo 
Are we there yet? Adaptive SIR model for continuous estimation of COVID-19 infection rate and reproduction number in the United States
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND The dynamics of the COVID-19 epidemic vary due to local population density and policy measures. When making decisions, policy makers consider an estimate of the effective reproduction number R_t which is the expected number of secondary infections by a single infected individual. OBJECTIVE We propose a simple method for estimating the time-varying infection rate and reproduction number R_t . METHODS We use a sliding window approach applied to a Susceptible-Infectious-Removed model. The infection rate is estimated using the reported cases for a seven-day window to obtain continuous estimation of R_t. The proposed adaptive SIR (aSIR) model was applied to data at the state and county levels. RESULTS The aSIR model showed an excellent fit for the number of reported COVID-19 positive cases, a one-day forecast MAPE was less than 2.6% across all states. However, a seven-day forecast MAPE reached 16.2% and strongly overestimated the number of cases when the reproduction number was high and changing fast. The maximal R_t showed a wide range of 2.0 to 4.5 across all states, with the highest values for New York (4.4) and Michigan (4.5). We demonstrate that the aSIR model can quickly adapt to an increase in the number of tests and associated increase in the reported cases of infections. Our results also suggest that intensive testing may be one of the effective methods of reducing R_t. CONCLUSIONS The aSIR model provides a simple and accurate computational tool to obtain continuous estimation of the reproduction number and evaluate the efficacy of mitigation measures. CLINICALTRIAL 

Result #3: uid eg5snpzs 
Time-dependent heterogeneity leads to transient suppression of the COVID-19 epidemic, not herd immunity
Abstract: 
 Epidemics generally spread through a succession of waves that reflect factors on multiple timescales. On short timescales, superspreading events lead to burstiness and overdispersion, whereas long-term persistent heterogeneity in susceptibility is expected to lead to a reduction in both the infection peak and the herd immunity threshold (HIT). Here, we develop a general approach to encompass both timescales, including time variations in individual social activity, and demonstrate how to incorporate them phenomenologically into a wide class of epidemiological models through reparameterization. We derive a nonlinear dependence of the effective reproduction number [Formula: see text] on the susceptible population fraction S. We show that a state of transient collective immunity (TCI) emerges well below the HIT during early, high-paced stages of the epidemic. However, this is a fragile state that wanes over time due to changing levels of social activity, and so the infection peak is not an indication of long-lasting herd immunity: Subsequent waves may emerge due to behavioral changes in the population, driven by, for example, seasonal factors. Transient and long-term levels of heterogeneity are estimated using empirical data from the COVID-19 epidemic and from real-life face-to-face contact networks. These results suggest that the hardest hit areas, such as New York City, have achieved TCI following the first wave of the epidemic, but likely remain below the long-term HIT. Thus, in contrast to some previous claims, these regions can still experience subsequent waves. 

Result #4: uid kpc35qbs 
Adaptive Susceptible-Infectious-Removed Model for Continuous Estimation of the COVID-19 Infection Rate and Reproduction Number in the United States: Modeling Study
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: The dynamics of the COVID-19 pandemic vary owing to local population density and policy measures. During decision-making, policymakers consider an estimate of the effective reproduction number Rt, which is the expected number of secondary infections spread by a single infected individual. OBJECTIVE: We propose a simple method for estimating the time-varying infection rate and the Rt. METHODS: We used a sliding window approach with a Susceptible-Infectious-Removed (SIR) model. We estimated the infection rate from the reported cases over a 7-day window to obtain a continuous estimation of Rt. A proposed adaptive SIR (aSIR) model was applied to analyze the data at the state and county levels. RESULTS: The aSIR model showed an excellent fit for the number of reported COVID-19 cases, and the 1-day forecast mean absolute prediction error was <2.6% across all states. However, the 7-day forecast mean absolute prediction error approached 16.2% and strongly overestimated the number of cases when the Rt was rapidly decreasing. The maximal Rt displayed a wide range of 2.0 to 4.5 across all states, with the highest values for New York (4.4) and Michigan (4.5). We found that the aSIR model can rapidly adapt to an increase in the number of tests and an associated increase in the reported cases of infection. Our results also suggest that intensive testing may be an effective method of reducing Rt. CONCLUSIONS: The aSIR model provides a simple and accurate computational tool for continuous Rt estimation and evaluation of the efficacy of mitigation measures. 

Result #5: uid sy7e7kjr 
Relaxation of social distancing restrictions: Model estimated impact on COVID-19 epidemic in Manitoba, Canada
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES: The unprecedented worldwide social distancing response to COVID-19 resulted in a quick reversal of escalating case numbers. Recently, local governments globally have begun to relax social distancing regulations. Using the situation in Manitoba, Canada as an example, we estimated the impact that social distancing relaxation may have on the pandemic. METHODS: We fit a mathematical model to empirically estimated numbers of people infected, recovered, and died from COVID-19 in Manitoba. We then explored the impact of social distancing relaxation on: (a) time until near elimination of COVID-19 (< one case per million), (b) time until peak prevalence, (c) proportion of the population infected within one year, (d) peak prevalence, and (e) deaths within one year. RESULTS: Assuming a closed population, near elimination of COVID-19 in Manitoba could have been achieved in 4–6 months (by July or August) if there were no relaxation of social distancing. Relaxing to 15% of pre-COVID effective contacts may extend the local epidemic for more than two years (median 2.1). Relaxation to 50% of pre-COVID effective contacts may result in a peak prevalence of 31–38% of the population, within 3–4 months of initial relaxation. CONCLUSION: Slight relaxation of social distancing may immensely impact the pandemic duration and expected peak prevalence. Only holding the course with respect to social distancing may have resulted in near elimination before Fall of 2020; relaxing social distancing to 15% of pre-COVID-19 contacts will flatten the epidemic curve but greatly extend the duration of the pandemic. 

