Which interleukins and IL-inhibitors are involved in COVID-19 pathways?

Result #1: uid fxrw1ea8 
An extended Weight Kernel Density Estimation model forecasts COVID-19 onset risk and identifies spatiotemporal variations of lockdown effects in China
Abstract: 
 It is important to forecast the risk of COVID-19 symptom onset and thereby evaluate how effectively the city lockdown measure could reduce this risk. This study is a first comprehensive, high-resolution investigation of spatiotemporal heterogeneities on the effect of the Wuhan lockdown on the risk of COVID-19 symptom onset in all 347 Chinese cities. An extended Weight Kernel Density Estimation model was developed to predict the COVID-19 onset risk under two scenarios (i.e., with and without the Wuhan lockdown). The Wuhan lockdown, compared with the scenario without lockdown implementation, in general, delayed the arrival of the COVID-19 onset risk peak for 1–2 days and lowered risk peak values among all cities. The decrease of the onset risk attributed to the lockdown was more than 8% in over 40% of Chinese cities, and up to 21.3% in some cities. Lockdown was the most effective in areas with medium risk before lockdown. 

Result #2: uid xbvg15s3 
Attendance at London workplaces after symptom onset: a retrospective cohort study of staff members with confirmed COVID-19
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease (COVID)-secure workplace guidance, including the prompt self-isolation of those with COVID-19 symptoms, is fundamental to disease control in workplaces. Despite guidance, a large number of workplace outbreaks have been observed. This study aimed to identify the proportion of symptomatic staff members attending workplaces after symptom onset or testing, and associated factors. METHODS: This study of symptomatic COVID-19 cases associated with London workplaces used London Coronavirus Response Centre (LCRC) records from routine telephone calls with cases and employers, from 17th July to 10th September. For each case, symptoms, date of onset, date of testing and the last attendance at work were extracted. Univariable logistic regression was performed to investigate whether age, gender or occupation was associated with workplace attendance after the onset of symptoms. RESULTS: Out of 130 symptomatic COVID-19 cases, 42 (32.3%) attended the workplace after their reported date of symptom onset, including 16 (12.3%) with recorded COVID-19 symptoms. Five staff members attended after COVID-19 testing. Males were 66% less likely to attend the workplace after the onset of COVID-19 symptoms compared to females (odds ratio 0.34, P = 0.05). Age and occupation were not predictive for workplace attendance after the onset of symptoms. CONCLUSION: A minority of symptomatic cases attended the workplace after the onset of COVID-19 symptoms, with a smaller proportion attending after testing. Males appeared less likely to attend the workplace after the onset of COVID-19 symptoms. This study highlights the need for ongoing COVID-19 secure workplace practices and prompt self-isolation after COVID-19 symptom onset or testing. 

Result #3: uid kaer6900 
A slow rainy season onset is a reliable harbinger of drought in most food insecure regions in Sub-Saharan Africa
Abstract: 
 Since 2015, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) has experienced an unprecedented rise in acute food insecurity (AFI), and current projections for the year 2020 indicate that more than 100 million Africans are estimated to receive emergency food assistance. Climate-driven drought is one of the main contributing factors to AFI, and timely and appropriate actions can be taken to mitigate impacts of AFI on lives and livelihoods through early warning systems. To support this goal, we use observations of peak Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) as an indicator of seasonal drought conditions following a rainy season to show that delays in the onset of the rainy season (onset date) can be an effective early indicator of seasonal drought conditions. The core of this study is an evaluation of the relationship of the onset dates and peak NDVI, stratified by AFI risks, calculated using AFI reports by the United States Agency of International Development (USAID)-funded Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET). Several parts of SSA, mostly located in East Africa (EA), reported the “Crisis” phase of AFI—requiring emergency food assistance—at least one-third of the time between April 2011 to present. The results show that the onset date can effectively explain much of the interannual variability in peak NDVI in the regions with the highest AFI risk level, particularly in EA where the median of correlation (across all the Administrative Unit 2) varies between -0.42 to -0.68. In general, an onset date delay of at least 1 dekad (10 days) increases the likelihood of seasonal drought conditions. In the regions with highest risks of AFI, an onset delay of just 1 dekad doubles the chance of the standardized anomaly of peak NDVI being below -1, making a -1 anomaly the most probable outcome. In those regions, a 2-dekads delay in the onset date is associated with a very high probability (50%) of seasonal drought conditions (-1 standardized anomaly of NDVI). Finally, a multivariate regression analysis between standardized anomaly and onset date anomaly further substantiates the negative impacts of delay in onset date on NDVI anomaly. This relationship is statistically significant over the SSA as a whole, particularly in the EA region. These results imply that the onset date can be used as an additional critical tool to provide alerts of seasonal drought development in the most food-insecure regions of SSA. Early warning systems using onset date as a tool can help trigger effective mid-season responses to save human lives, livestock, and livelihoods, and, therefore, mitigate the adverse impacts of drought hazards. 

Result #4: uid lh25lpl8 
Time of Onset of Selected Skin Lesions Associated with COVID-19: A Systematic Review
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION: Distinct skin lesions associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been described, but data regarding their time of onset during the COVID-19 course are scant. Our objective was to systematically review the studies reporting the time of onset of selected skin lesions with respect to the reported onset of the COVID-19 core symptoms. METHODS: A comprehensive search of studies published before 21 January 2021 was performed on MEDLINE via PubMed database using a predefined strategy to identify relevant articles. RESULTS: Out of 354 references, 87 were selected, reporting a total of 895 patients with skin lesions associated with COVID-19. The most frequent pattern was exanthema (n = 430, 48%), followed by vascular (n = 299, 33%), urticarial (n = 105, 12%) and others (n = 66, 7%). Skin lesions occurred more frequently in the first 4 weeks from the COVID-19 onset (n = 831, 92%), whereas prodromal or late lesions were rarer (n = 69, 8%). The urticarial and exanthema patterns were more frequent in the first 2 weeks. About the vascular pattern some differences were noted among its subtypes. Livedoid lesions occurred mainly in the first 2 weeks, while chilblain-like lesions between weeks 2 and 4. Purpuric/petechial lesions were equally distributed during the first 4 weeks. Several skin manifestations did not fall into the pattern classification, including erythema multiforme, generalized pruritus, Kawasaki disease and others. CONCLUSION: The diversity in the time of onset of skin lesions as well as their polymorphic nature likely reflects the diversity of the pathogenetic underlying mechanisms. PROSPERO DATABASE REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42021236331. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13555-021-00526-8. 

Result #5: uid osz9ztif 
Forecasting of COVID-19 onset cases: a data-driven analysis in the early stage of delay
Abstract: 
 The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a global public health event. Many researchers have proposed many epidemiological models to predict the outbreak trend of COVID-19, but all use confirmed cases to predict “onset cases.” In this article, a total of 5434 cases were collected from National Health Commission and other provincial Health Commission in China, spanning from 1 December 2019 to 23 February 2020. We studied the delayed distribution of patients from onset to be confirmed. The delay is divided into two stages, which takes about 15 days or even longer. Therefore, considering the right truncation of the data, we proposed a “predict-in-advance” method, used the number of “visiting hospital cases” to predict the number of “onset cases.” The results not only show that our prediction shortens the delay of the second stage, but also the predicted value of onset cases is quite close to the real value of onset cases, which can effectively predict the epidemic trend of sudden infectious diseases, and provide an important reference for the government to formulate control measures in advance. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11356-020-11859-w. 

