When is it safe to discharge a COVID-19 patient with pneumonia? 

Result #1: uid uptfn580 
Infected hip prosthesis in patient with suspected Covid-19 infection
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Infections following arthroplasty are one of the major risks during this type of surgery. Moreover, the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome CoronaVirus Disease 2), has developed into an unprecedented pandemic, posing enormous pressure on health-care providers around the world. CASE PRESENTATION: Four and half years after right hip arthroplasty, the patient came back to our attention with pain at the same hip. The instrumental examinations showed signs of cup detachment. After carefully analyzing the case, we decided to perform a sterile aspiration of the hip in the operating room under C-arm fluoroscopy. Microbiological examinations showed positivity for E. coli. The patient underwent surgery by which the prosthesis was removed and a spacer was implanted. A therapy with Cefotaxim 2 g three times a day for 6 weeks was then set, and then a total arthroplasty was performed. During this period, the COVID-19 pandemic occurred and therefore the patient received nasal-throat swabbing two times, and both yielded negative results. However, 1 week after the final surgery, his respiratory conditions deteriorated and chest X-ray and CT scan showed images of ground-glass opacification patterns (GGO). Due to the clinical symptoms and the characteristic images of the instrumental examinations, the patient was transferred to an observation ward. Thereafter, two more swab tests gave negative results. The patient was then transferred to the ward for patients with typical symptoms of COVID-19 but with negative swab tests for 2 weeks and was subsequently discharged home. CONCLUSION: The purpose of this case report was to point out the correct treatment of a PJI after the outbreak of COVID-19. Despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the guidelines in the case of periprosthetic hip infection further confirmed the correct management of the patient. 

Result #2: uid 18x4bloe 
Simultaneous versus staged resections for bilateral pulmonary metastases
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND For patients with bilateral pulmonary metastases, staged resections have historically been the preferred surgical intervention. During the spring of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic made patient travel to the hospital challenging and necessitated reduction in operative volume so that resources could be conserved. We report our experience with synchronous bilateral metastasectomies for the treatment of disease in both lungs. METHODS Patients with bilateral pulmonary metastases who underwent simultaneous bilateral resections were compared with a cohort of patients who underwent staged resections. We used nearest-neighbor propensity score (1:1) matching to adjust for confounders. Perioperative outcomes were compared between groups using paired statistical analysis techniques. RESULTS Between 1998 and 2020, 36 patients underwent bilateral simultaneous metastasectomies. We matched 31 pairs of patients. The length of stay was significantly shorter in patients undergoing simultaneous resection (median 3 vs. 8 days, p < .001) and operative time was shorter (156 vs. 235.5 min, p < .001) when compared to the sum of both procedures in the staged group. The groups did not significantly differ with regard to postoperative complications. CONCLUSION In a carefully selected patient population, simultaneous bilateral metastasectomy is a safe option. A single procedure confers benefits for both the patient as well as the hospital resource system. 

Result #3: uid 2a8wvxqy 
Use radiography rarely, not routinely, for hip hemiarthroplasty
Abstract: 
 PURPOSE: Hip hemiarthroplasty (HA) is a commonly performed operation. A post-operative radiograph forms part of the routine hip fracture pathway, although patients are often mobilised prior to this investigation. This study seeks to provide evidence for a pragmatic clinical change to optimise patient safety and allocate limited resources within the National Health Service (NHS). METHODS: We undertook a retrospective database review of 1563 HA procedures to assess whether the routine ordering of check radiographs played an important role in a patient’s post-operative care. RESULTS: 18 (1.2%) mechanical complications led to a return to theatre within 6 weeks of the index procedure. All were dislocations. Ten had a normal post-operative radiograph and five had documented suspicion of dislocation prior to radiography. The post-operative check radiograph was the sole identifier of dislocation in only three patients (0.2%). All three of these patients were pre-morbidly bed bound and non-communicative due to cognitive impairment (AMTS 0/10). CONCLUSION: Unless a patient is pre-morbidly bed bound and cognitively impaired, routine post-operative radiography following HA surgery is of little clinical benefit, yet may carry considerable risk to the patient and cost to the NHS. A pragmatic compromise is to perform intra-operative fluoroscopic imaging. 

Result #4: uid tzwkwo1e 
Letter to the editor regarding: ‘Impalpable breast lesion localisation, a logistical challenge: results of the UK iBRA-NET national practice questionnaire
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #5: uid x71mg2pg 
Operative treatment of multiple costochondral dislocations in a patient with severe rib fractures and a flail chest following trauma
Abstract: 
 A 73-year-old male patient underwent operative treatment for dislocation of multiple costochondral junctions alongside multiple bony rib fractures and a flail chest following high-energy trauma. During the operative fixation of the flail chest, the costochondral lesions were surgically stabilised with plates and screws, which were fixated on the osseous anterior rib, sternum or the rib cartilage. The patient experienced no pulmonary complications during the primary admission. At 7 months after the trauma, the chest CT scan showed full consolidation of all fixated rib fractures, including the costochondral lesions, without hardware dislocation or complications. The patient did not require any pain medication and had no pain during daily activities, at rest or at night. Although being a biomechanically demanding region, which is often not defined in current rib fracture classification, operative treatment of costochondral lesions is feasible with outcome similar to the treatment of bony rib fractures. 

