What are the characteristics and technological platforms of the COVID-19 vaccines that reached human clinical trials?

Result #1: uid yzh1g6gu 
Non-motor complications in late stage Parkinson's disease: recognition, management and unmet needs
Abstract: 
 Introduction: The burden of non-motor symptoms (NMS) is a major determinant of health-related quality of life in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly at its late stage. Areas covered: The late stage is usually defined as the period from unstable advanced to the palliative stage, characterized by a combination of an emerging treatment-resistant axial motor symptoms (freezing of gait, postural instability, falls and dysphagia), as well as both non-dopaminergic and dopaminergic NMS: cognitive decline, neuropsychiatric symptoms, aspects of dysautonomia, pain and sleep disturbances (insomnia and excessive day-time sleepiness). Here, the authors summarize the current knowledge on NMS dominating the late stage of PD and propose a pragmatic and clinically focused approach for their recognition and treatment. Expert opinion: The NMS progression pattern is complex and remains under-researched. While dopamine-dependent NMS may improve with dopamine replacement therapy, non-dopamine dependent NMS worsen progressively and culminate at the late stages of PD. Furthermore, some PD specific features could interact negatively with other comorbidities, multiple medication use and frailty - the evaluation of these aspects is important in the creation of personalized management plans in the late stages of PD. 

Result #2: uid eyyicgby 
Energy expenditure and feeding practices and tolerance during the acute and late phase of critically ill COVID-19 patients
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND & AIMS: Different metabolic phases can be distinguished in critical illness, which influences nutritional treatment. Achieving optimal nutritional treatment during these phases in critically ill patients is challenging. COVID-19 patients seem particularly difficult to feed due to gastrointestinal problems. Our aim was to describe measured resting energy expenditure (mREE) and feeding practices and tolerance during the acute and late phases of critical illness in COVID-19 patients. METHODS: Observational study including critically ill mechanically ventilated adult COVID-19 patients. Indirect calorimetry (Q-NRG+, Cosmed) was used to determine mREE during the acute (day 0–7) and late phase (>day 7) of critical illness. Data on nutritional intake, feeding tolerance and urinary nitrogen loss were collected simultaneously. A paired sample t-test was performed for mREE in both phases. RESULTS: We enrolled 21 patients with a median age of 59 years [44–66], 67% male and median BMI of 31.5 kg/m(2) [25.7–37.8]. Patients were predominantly fed with EN in both phases. No significant difference in mREE was observed between phases (p = 0.529). Sixty-five percent of the patients were hypermetabolic in both phases. Median delivery of energy as percentage of mREE was higher in the late phase (94%) compared to the acute phase (70%) (p = 0.001). Urinary nitrogen losses were significant higher in the late phase (p = 0.003). CONCLUSION: In both the acute and late phase, the majority of the patients were hypermetabolic and fed enterally. In the acute phase patients were fed hypocaloric whereas in the late phase this was almost normocaloric, conform ESPEN guidelines. No significant difference in mREE was observed between phases. Hypermetabolism in both phases in conjunction with an increasing loss of urinary nitrogen may indicate that COVID-19 patients remain in a prolonged acute, catabolic phase. 

Result #3: uid bj7texaa 
Variations in respiratory pathogen carriage among a homeless population in a shelter for men in Marseille, France, March–July 2020: cross-sectional 1-day surveys
Abstract: 
 We aimed to compare respiratory pathogen carriage by PCR during three different time periods in 2020 in sheltered homeless people in Marseille, France. The overall prevalence of respiratory pathogen carriage in late March–early April (69.9%) was significantly higher than in late April (42.3%) and mid-July (45.1%). Bacterial carriage significantly decreased between late March–early April and late April. SARS-CoV-2 was detected only in late March–early April samples (20.6%). Measures aiming at mitigating SARS-CoV-2 transmission were effective and also impacted bacterial carriage. Seasonal variations of bacterial carriage between winter and summer in this population were not marked. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10096-020-04127-9. 

Result #4: uid v2s3h2pm 
Potential late effects of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection: parallels to cancer late effects
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #5: uid y2i1fkk1 
Late presentation of myocardial infarction (MI) during the COVID-19 pandemic
Abstract: 
 A 65-year-old man presented to emergency department with progressive worsening dyspnoea, which was preceded by crushing, substernal chest pain 3 weeks prior that lasted for over 2 days. At the time the patient thought that this was a symptom of COVID-19 so he stayed at home and self-quarantined, until his symptoms worsened to the point of needing hospitalisation. The patient was found to have had myocardial infarction, with coronary angiography showing 100% occlusion of the Left Anterior Descending artery (LAD). Medical management was recommended given late presentation and risk of reperfusion injury. 

