What is the role of corticosteroids in COVID-19?

Result #1: uid ytvwfwhy 
[Cycloferon in local immunotherapy in patients with virus-associated rhinitis
Abstract: 
 Evaluation of the effectiveness of various schemes of local immunotherapy in immunocompromised patients with allergic rhinitis was carried out. MATERIALS AND METHODS A comparative analysis of the treatment of 72 patients with allergic rhinitis, divided into groups: I (main, n=21), which included immunocompromised patients who received sublingual allergen-specific immunotherapy with antipollin and inhaled immunotherapy with cycloferon (every other day, a course of 10 procedures, the total dose of Cycloferon per course is 1250 mg); II (comparison, n=22) - immunocompromised patients who received monotherapy with antipollinum and III (control, n=29) - patients with allergic rhinitis without signs of immunocompromise, who also received antipollinum. The effectiveness of therapy was assessed by the quality of life (RQLQ questionnaire), the severity of nasal symptoms (the patient's self-observation diary) and the need for drugs after a course of intranasal immunotherapy. RESULTS The inclusion of cycloferon in the treatment of immunocompromised patients with allergic rhinitis increased its effectiveness - the severity of nasal symptoms decreased: in terms of sneezing, a decrease of 53.5 times versus 1.82 - in the control, «nasal congestion» - 6.3 times versus 2.6 - in the control, «itching in the nose» - 4.9 and 4.2 times, respectively (p<0.05). The changes had a positive effect on the total indicator of the quality of life of patients - an increase of 6.2 times (by 83.7%) (p>0.05) and significantly reduced the need for cromones (18 times, versus 10.3 - in the group comparison), inhaled corticosteroids (10.4 times versus 8 times in the comparison group, and in decongestans - 8.1 times versus 6.1 - in the comparison group (p>0.05)). CONCLUSIONS The combined use of local immunotherapy with cycloferon and sublingual allergen-specific immunotherapy with antipollinum in immunocompromised patients with allergic rhinitis is the first-line method of choice that statistically significantly changes the quality of life of patients. 

Result #2: uid r125t4t3 
Efficacy and safety of apremilast in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp: results up to 32 weeks from a randomised, phase 3 study
Abstract: 
 Scalp psoriasis is common and is often severe enough to negatively impact quality of life (QOL).1,2 In STYLE (NCT03123471), oral apremilast 30 mg twice daily (BID) demonstrated significantly greater improvements in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp, scalp itch, whole body itch, and QOL versus placebo3 during the 16-week, placebo-controlled phase; safety and tolerability were consistent with the known safety profile of apremilast.3,4 We report the efficacy and safety of apremilast during the apremilast extension phase of STYLE (Weeks 16 to 32). During the extension phase, patients initially randomised to placebo were switched to apremilast (placebo/apremilast group; with titration during Week 16) and patients initially randomised to apremilast continued active treatment (apremilast/apremilast group; with dummy titration during Week 16) through Week 32. We also present efficacy of apremilast at Week 16 in patient subgroups based on baseline demographics and treatment characteristics. 

Result #3: uid 4xeexn0m 
COVID-19: Recovery from chemosensory dysfunction. A multicentre study on smell and taste
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE With the COVID-19 pandemic chemosensory dysfunction are among the most prevalent symptoms. Most reports are subjective evaluations, which has been suggested to be unreliable. The objective is to test chemosensory dysfunction and recovery based on extensive psychophysical tests in COVID-19 during the course of the disease. METHODS 111 patients from four centres participated in the study. All tested positive for SARS-COV-2 with RT-PCR. They were tested within three days of diagnosis and 28 to 169 days after infection. Testing included extensive olfactory testing with the Sniffin' Sticks test for threshold, discrimination and identification abilities, and with the Taste Sprays and Taste Strips for gustatory function for quasi-threshold and taste identification abilities. RESULTS There was a significant difference in olfactory function during and after infection. During infection 21% were anosmic, 49% hyposmic and 30% normosmic. After infection only 1% were anosmic, 26% hyposmic and 73% normosmic. For gustatory function there was a difference for all taste qualities, but significantly in sour, bitter and total score. 26% had gustatory dysfunction during infection and 6.5% had gustatory dysfunction after infection. Combining all tests 22% had combined olfactory and gustatory dysfunction during infection. After infection no patients had combined dysfunction. CONCLUSION Chemosensory dysfunction is very common in COVID-19, either as isolated smell or taste dysfunction or a combined dysfunction. Most people regain their chemosensory function within the first 28 days, but a quarter of the patients show persisting dysfunction, which should be referred to specialist smell and taste clinics for rehabilitation of chemosensory function. 

Result #4: uid aa5vn2mm 
Subcutaneous daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj in newly diagnosed or relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma
Abstract: 
 Daratumumab, a human immunoglobulin G1 kappa monoclonal antibody that targets CD38, is currently approved as monotherapy and in varying combinations with approved anti-myeloma regimens in both newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and relapsed refractory multiple myeloma. Originally developed for intravenous administration, the subcutaneous formulation of daratumumab (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj) was recently approved by the US Federal Drug Administration and European Commission in 2020. In clinical trials, compared with the intravenous formulation, subcutaneous daratumumab (Dara-SC) has significantly shorter administration time (median first dose 7 h versus 3–5 min, respectively), lower rates of infusion-related reactions (median first dose 50% versus less than 10%, respectively), and lower volume of infusion (median 500–1000 ml versus 15 ml, respectively). Otherwise, the pharmacokinetics, safety profile, and efficacy are comparable. This review summarizes the pivotal trials that led to the approval of Dara-SC, highlights important clinical considerations for the use of Dara-SC, and provides practical guidelines for the administration of Dara-SC in the clinic. 

Result #5: uid i16n54en 
COVID-19 and mortality in rare rheumatic diseases, a warning bell
Abstract: 
 None 

