Is there any scientific evidence that any of the alternative remedies can prevent or cure COVID-19?

Result #1: uid uuz0b101 
Isatis indigotica: a review of phytochemistry, pharmacological activities and clinical applications
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES Isatis indigotica Fort. (I. indigotica) is an herbaceous plant belonging to Cruciferae family. Its leaf (IIL) and root (IIR) are commonly used in traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) with good clinical efficacies such as clearing away heat and detoxification, cooling blood and reducing swelling. This review aimed to provide a systematic summary on the phytochemistry, pharmacology and clinical applications of I. indigotica. KEY FINDINGS This plant contains alkaloids, organic acids, flavonoids, lignans, nucleosides, amino acids, and steroids. Previous pharmacological researches indicated that I. indigotica possesses promising antivirus, antibacterial, immunoregulatory, anti-inflammation, and cholagogic effects. Importantly, it can inhibit various viruses, such as influenza, hepatitis B, mumps, herpes simplex, cytomegalovirus, and coxsachievirus. Clinically, it is frequently used to treat various viral diseases like viral influenza, parotitis and viral hepatitis. Consequently, I. indigotica may be beneficial for the prevention and treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). SUMMARY This paper reviewed the chemical constituents, pharmacological effects and clinical applications of I. indigotica which may guide further research and application of this plant. 

Result #2: uid omq28yyx 
Ethnobotany, Pharmacological activities and Bioavailability studies of "King of Bitter" (Kalmegh): A Review (2010-2020
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Andrographis paniculata, commonly known as "Kalmegh", is an annual herbaceous plant from family Acanthaceae. The whole plant of A. paniculata has explored for multiple pharmacological activities and is scientifically recognized by in-vivo and in-vitro studies. Various biotechnologically engineered techniques have been explored to enhance the bioavailability of this plant. OBJECTIVE In this review, we aim to present comprehensive recent advances in the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, specific pharmacology, safety and toxicology and bioavailability of A. paniculata and its pure compounds. Possible directions for future research are also outlined in brief, which will encourage advance investigations on this plant. METHODS Information on the recent updates of the present review is collected from different electronic scientific databases such as Science Direct, PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar. All the composed information is classified into different sections according to the objective of the paper. RESULTS More than hundred research and review papers have been studied and incorporated in the present manuscript. After vast literature search of A. paniculata, we present a noteworthy report of various phytoconstituents present in plant, which are accountable for potential therapeutic properties of the plant. Forty-five of studied articles give general information about introduction, ethnobotany and traditional uses of the plant. Twenty-two papers enclosed information about the phytoconstituents present in different parts of A. paniculata and seventy-two papers briefly outlined the pharmacological activities like antioxidant, anti-dengue, anti-ulcerogenic, antifungal, some miscellaneous activities like activity against SARS-CoV-2, antidiarrhoeal. Nineteen studies highlighted the research work conducted by various researchers to increased bioavailability of A. paniculata and two studies reported the safety and toxicology of the plant. CONCLUSION This review incorporated the scientifically validated research work encompassing the ethnobotanical description of the subjected plant, phytochemical profile, various pharmacological activities, and recent approaches to enhance the bioavailability of active metabolites. 

Result #3: uid fb2k6eyh 
Effectiveness of Chinese herbal medicine and persian medicine against viral infections: A systematic review
Abstract: 
 The underlying aim of this study is to systematic discuss the effectiveness of Chinese and Persian herbal medicine through the analysis of the existing and available studies on the usage of such herbs, plant extracts and herbal formulations that are descended from these two traditional medicinal roots Using the technique of a systematic literature review, the researcher extracted 64 articles, only 8 of which were reviews and all others were original clinical researches, from medical databases including Pub Med, NIH and other clinical and scientific reports After putting effort in conducting a screening in accordance to the exclusion criteria, the researcher included 64 articles, all of which were from 2010 and onwards to conduct this analysis The study can be concluded as suggesting that the herbal medicine is quite effective in helping to treat, prevent and cure viral infections and widespread viral diseases However, there is need of much more research in this area and the future researchers need to make investigations into the area of combined impacts of herbal and traditional medicine © 2021 EManuscript Technologies All rights reserved 

Result #4: uid 30tqfcgt 
Antiviral Activity of Jamaican Medicinal Plants and Isolated Bioactive Compounds
Abstract: 
 Plants have had historical significance in medicine since the beginning of civilization. The oldest medical pharmacopeias of the African, Arabian, and Asian countries solely utilize plants and herbs to treat pain, oral diseases, skin diseases, microbial infections, multiple types of cancers, reproductive disorders among a myriad of other ailments. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that over 65% of the world population solely utilize botanical preparations as medicine. Due to the abundance of plants, plant-derived medicines are more readily accessible, affordable, convenient, and have safer side-effect profiles than synthetic drugs. Plant-based decoctions have been a significant part of Jamaican traditional folklore medicine. Jamaica is of particular interest because it has approximately 52% of the established medicinal plants that exist on earth. This makes the island particularly welcoming for rigorous scientific research on the medicinal value of plants and the development of phytomedicine thereof. Viral infections caused by the human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2), hepatitis virus B and C, influenza A virus, and the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) present a significant global burden. This is a review of some important Jamaican medicinal plants, with particular reference to their antiviral activity. 

Result #5: uid 5ig27v8w 
Toxicity of herbal medications suggested as treatment for COVID‐19: A narrative review
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES: In the absence of a definitive cure, herbal medications are gaining increasing popularity in the general public for treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19). Although many herbal preparations are safe and can be used without complication, serious toxicities do occur. This article focuses on the major characteristics and toxicities of herbal preparations that have been proposed as treatments for COVID‐19. METHODS: A review was performed focusing on herbal preparations that have gained popularity as potential treatments for COVID‐19. Some of these preparations have been directly recommended by government agencies, whereas others have gained popularity through various other news sources. RESULTS: The herbal preparations covered in this paper include the cardiac glycoside oleandrin, plants of the Datura genus, and herbs commonly used in traditional Chinese Medicine including plants of the Aconitum genus, bitter apricot seeds, ephedra, and licorice root. CONCLUSION: Although herbal preparations have been reported to aid in the treatment of COVID‐19 with success, few clinical trials have been performed to evaluate their efficacy and instead rely mainly on in vitro studies and anecdotal reports. Furthermore, many of the herbal preparations suggested carry significant toxicities, and frontline healthcare workers should be aware of the common symptoms and toxidromes that result from these poisonings. 

