How do  mutations in SARS-CoV-2 impact its infectivity and antigenicity?

Result #1: uid 9zvba214 
Bahraini Public’s Dependency on Social Media as a Source of Information About COVID-19 Pandemic
Abstract: 
 This study aims to identify the role of media campaigns factors to combat Corona Virus (COVID-19) in the Kingdom of Bahrain applying to a simple random sample of 250 through questionnaire tool. The results showed the campaigns focused on many ways to prevent the disease, namely: washing hands frequently with soap and water, using disinfectants to clean the house, using tissues when coughing or sneezing, ventilating the house constantly the campaigns showed also many indicators of Corona Virus infection such as high temperature in all body parts, and severe coughing. 

Result #2: uid a8fsox8n 
Crowdfunding Campaigns and COVID-19 Misinformation
Abstract: 
 Objectives. To understand whether and how crowdfunding campaigns are a source of COVID-19-related misinformation.Methods. We searched the GoFundMe crowdfunding platform using 172 terms associated with medical misinformation about COVID-19 prophylaxes and treatments. We screened resulting campaigns for those making statements about the ability of these searched-for or related terms to prevent or treat COVID-19.Results. There were 208 campaigns worldwide that requested $21 475 568, raised $324 305 from 4367 donors, and were shared 24 158 times. The most discussed interventions were dietary supplements and purported immune system boosters (n = 231), followed by other forms of complementary and alternative medicine (n = 24), and unproven medical interventions (n = 15). Most (82.2%) of the campaigns made definitive efficacy claims.Conclusions. Campaigners focused their efforts on dietary supplements and immune system boosters. Campaigns for purported COVID-19 treatments are particularly concerning, but purported prophylaxes could also distract from known effective preventative approaches. GoFundMe should join other online and social media platforms to actively restrict campaigns that spread misinformation about COVID-19 or seek to better inform campaigners about evidence-based prophylaxes and treatments. (Am J Public Health. Published online ahead of print February 18, 2021: e1-e4. https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2020.306121). 

Result #3: uid s2qliq62 
Real-time Twitter interactions during World Breastfeeding Week: A case study and social network analysis
Abstract: 
 Using Twitter to implement public health awareness campaigns is on the rise, but campaign monitoring and evaluation are largely dependent on basic Twitter Analytics. To establish the potential of social network theory-based metrics in better understanding public health campaigns, we analyzed real-time user interactions on Twitter during the 2020 World Breastfeeding Week (WBW) as an exemplar case. Social network analysis (SNA), including community and influencer identification, as well as topic modeling were used to compare the activity of n = 29,958 campaign participants and n = 10,694 reference users from the six-months pre-campaign period. Users formed more inter-connected relationships during the campaign, retweeting and mentioning each other 46,161 times compared to 10,662 times in the prior six months. Campaign participants formed identifiable communities that were not only based on their geolocation, but also based on interests and professional background. While influencers who dominated the WBW conversations were disproportionally members of the scientific community, the campaign did mobilize influencers from the general public who seemed to play a "bridging" role between the public and the scientific community. Users communicated about the campaign beyond its original themes to also discuss breastfeeding within the context of social and racial inequities. Applying SNA allowed understanding of the breastfeeding campaign's messaging and engagement dynamics across communities and influencers. Moving forward, WBW could benefit from improving targeting to enhance geographic coverage and user interactions. As this exemplar case indicates, social network theory and analysis can be used to inform other public health campaigns with data on user interactions that go beyond traditional metrics. 

Result #4: uid 0hn57qyk 
A Systematic Scoping Review of Media Campaigns to Develop a Typology to Evaluate Their Collective Impact on Promoting Healthy Hydration Behaviors and Reducing Sugary Beverage Health Risks
Abstract: 
 Interventions to discourage sugary beverages and encourage water consumption have produced modest and unsustainable behavioral changes to reduce obesity and noncommunicable disease risks. This systematic scoping review examined media campaigns to develop a typology to support healthy hydration nonalcoholic beverage behaviors. Our three-step methodology included the following: (1) review and summarize expert-recommended healthy beverage guidelines; (2) review six English-language electronic databases guided by PRISMA to describe existing campaign types by issue, goal and underlying theory; and (3) develop a media campaign typology to support policies, systems and environments to encourage healthy hydration behaviors. Results showed no international consensus for healthy beverage guidelines, though we describe expert-recommended healthy beverage guidelines for the United States. Of 909 records identified, we included 24 articles describing distinct media campaigns and nine sources that defined models, schemes or taxonomies. The final media campaign typology included: (1) corporate advertising, marketing or entertainment; (2) corporate social responsibility, public relations/cause marketing; (3) social marketing; (4) public information, awareness, education/ health promotion; (5) media advocacy/countermarketing; and (6) political or public policy. This proof-of-concept media campaign typology can be used to evaluate their collective impact and support for a social change movement to reduce sugary beverage health risks and to encourage healthy hydration behaviors. 

Result #5: uid wwlf0kw0 
Early Crowdfunding Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic: Cross-sectional Study
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: As the number of COVID-19 cases increased precipitously in the United States, policy makers and health officials marshalled their pandemic responses. As the economic impacts multiplied, anecdotal reports noted the increased use of web-based crowdfunding to defray these costs. OBJECTIVE: We examined the web-based crowdfunding response in the early stage of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States to understand the incidence of initiation of COVID-19–related campaigns and compare them to non–COVID-19–related campaigns. METHODS: On May 16, 2020, we extracted all available data available on US campaigns that contained narratives and were created between January 1 and May 10, 2020, on GoFundMe. We identified the subset of COVID-19–related campaigns using keywords relevant to the COVID-19 pandemic. We explored the incidence of COVID-19–related campaigns by geography, by category, and over time, and we compared the characteristics of the campaigns to those of non–COVID-19–related campaigns after March 11, when the pandemic was declared. We then used a natural language processing algorithm to cluster campaigns by narrative content using overlapping keywords. RESULTS: We found that there was a substantial increase in overall GoFundMe web-based crowdfunding campaigns in March, largely attributable to COVID-19–related campaigns. However, as the COVID-19 pandemic persisted and progressed, the number of campaigns per COVID-19 case declined more than tenfold across all states. The states with the earliest disease burden had the fewest campaigns per case, indicating a lack of a case-dependent response. COVID-19–related campaigns raised more money, had a longer narrative description, and were more likely to be shared on Facebook than other campaigns in the study period. CONCLUSIONS: Web-based crowdfunding appears to be a stopgap for only a minority of campaigners. The novelty of an emergency likely impacts both campaign initiation and crowdfunding success, as it reflects the affective response of a community. Crowdfunding activity likely serves as an early signal for emerging needs and societal sentiment for communities in acute distress that could be used by governments and aid organizations to guide disaster relief and policy. 

