What computational predictions of SARS-CoV-2 mutations have been confirmed?

Result #1: uid jfwcqiqn 
Impact of Liposomal Drug Formulations on the RBCs Shape, Transmembrane Potential, and Mechanical Properties
Abstract: 
 Liposomal technologies are used in order to improve the effectiveness of current therapies or to reduce their negative side effects. However, the liposome–erythrocyte interaction during the intravenous administration of liposomal drug formulations may result in changes within the red blood cells (RBCs). In this study, it was shown that phosphatidylcholine-composed liposomal formulations of Photolon, used as a drug model, significantly influences the transmembrane potential, stiffness, as well as the shape of RBCs. These changes caused decreasing the number of stomatocytes and irregular shapes proportion within the cells exposed to liposomes. Thus, the reduction of anisocytosis was observed. Therefore, some nanodrugs in phosphatidylcholine liposomal formulation may have a beneficial effect on the survival time of erythrocytes. 

Result #2: uid aqnkmm3z 
Cefaclor Monohydrate-Loaded Colon-Targeted Nanoparticles for Use in COVID-19 Dependent Coinfections and Intestinal Symptoms: Formulation, Characterization, Release Kinetics, and Antimicrobial Activity
Abstract: 
 Corona virus disease-2019 (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, China in December 2019 and was declared as a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020. Although there is no complete treatment protocol for COVID-19, studies on this topic are ongoing, and it is known that broad-spectrum antibiotics such as cephalosporins are used for coinfections and symptoms in COVID-19 patients. Studies have shown that Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli bacteria can cause symptoms such as diarrhea and coinfections accompanying COVID-19. Therefore, in this study, colon-targeted cefaclor monohydrate (CEF)-loaded poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA)-Eudragit S100 nanoparticles (NPs) were prepared using a nanoprecipitation technique. The particle sizes of the CEF-loaded NPs were between 171.4 and 198.8 nm. The encapsulation efficiency was in the range of 58.4%-81.2%. With dissolution studies, it has been concluded that formulations prepared with Eudragit S100 (E-coded) and Eudragit S100+PLGA (EP-coded) are pH-sensitive formulations and they are targetable to the colon, whereas the formulation prepared only with PLGA (P-coded) can release a higher CEF rate in the colon owing to the slow release properties of PLGA. The release kinetics were fitted to the Korsmeyer-Peppas and Weibull models. The antibacterial activity of E-, EP-, and P-coded formulations was 16-fold, 16-fold, and 2-fold higher than CEF, respectively, for S. aureus and E. coli according to the microdilution results. As a result of the time killing experiment, all formulations prepared were found to be more effective than the antibiotic itself for long periods. Consequently, all formulations prepared in this study hope to guide researchers/clinicians in treating both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria-induced infections, as well as COVID-19 associated coinfections and symptoms. 

Result #3: uid gr6jjb0k 
Hydrogels in Hand Sanitizers
Abstract: 
 Hand hygiene can be considered a strategic key useful in the containment of infections such as COVID-19 both at home and in communities because it can dramatically reduce the widespread outbreak of infections. In case of the unavailability of soap and water, "instant" hand sanitizers are recommended because their application can be considered easy, versatile, quick and often less aggressive for the skin. For these reasons, alcoholic and alcohol-free hand rub gels can be considered the best performing formulations on the market. Together with disinfectants and antiseptic agents, hydrogels play a fundamental role in obtaining stable formulations and are easy to disperse, with a pleasant skin feel and an overall good performance. Several compounds commonly used in the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and food industry are available for this purpose, in particular, cellulose derivatives and synthetic polymers derivatives. Each of them is available in several grades, presenting different thickening behavior, rheological properties and compatibility with other ingredients, alcohols in particular. For all these reasons, it is important to explore hydrogel properties and behaviors in different contexts (i.e., hydroalcoholic and aqueous media) in order to develop new and performing hand rub gels, always taking into account the different international legal frameworks regarding disinfectant and sanitizing formulations. 

Result #4: uid tfv5a4y2 
A Lipid-Based Depot Formulation with a Novel Non-lamellar Liquid Crystal Forming Lipid
Abstract: 
 PURPOSE: Non-lamellar liquid crystal (NLLC)-forming lipids have gained attention as a novel component because of their ability to self-assemble upon contact with body fluids. In this study, a novel NLLC-forming lipid, mono-O-(5, 9, 13-trimethyl-4-tetradecenyl) glycerol ester (C17MGE), and a model drug with a middle molecule weight, leuprolide acetate (LA), were used to confirm the usefulness of C17MGE as an excipient for depot formulations with sustained release properties. METHODS: A self-constructed depot formulation was prepared by mixing C17MGE and different types of phospholipids. The constructed NLLC structure was evaluated using small angle X-ray analysis and cryo-transmission electron microscopy. In vitro release and blood concentration profiles of LA were investigated. RESULTS: The NLLC structure was confirmed by small angle X-ray analysis. LA release was able to be modified by adding different ratios of various phospholipids to C17MGE. Formulations containing 1, 2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol sodium salt with a mixing ratio of 12% or 24% (M(DOPG12) or M(DOPG24), respectively) exhibited sustained release profiles of LA. In addition, the blood concentration of LA was detected over 21 days or more after administration of M(DOPG12), and the absolute bioavailability was calculated to be about 100%. CONCLUSIONS: A depot formulation using C17MGE was useful to achieve sustained release of LA. 

Result #5: uid kwws81ne 
Comparison of the in vitro-efficacy of different mouthwash solutions targeting SARS-CoV-2 based on the European Standard EN 14476
Abstract: 
 The outbreak of the SARS-Cov-2 pandemic is triggering a global health emergency alert. Until vaccination becomes available, a bundle of effective preventive measures is desperately needed. Recent research is indicating the relevance of aerosols in the spread of SARS-CoV-2. Thus, in this study commercially available antiseptic mouthwashes based on the actives chlorhexidine digluconate (CHX) and octenidine dihydrochloride (OCT) were investigated regarding their efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 using the European Standard 14476. Based on the requirement of EN 14476 in which reduction of at least four decimal logarithms (log(10)) of viral titer is requested to state efficacy, the OCT-based formulation was found to be effective within a contact time of only 15 sec against SARS-CoV-2. Based on this in vitro-data the OCT-mouthwash thus constitutes an interesting candidate for future clinical studies to prove its effectiveness in a potential prevention of SARS-CoV-2 transmission by aerosols. 

