How clean Is the air in passenger aircrafts and what are the COVID-19 risk reduction steps for airports and airlines?

Result #1: uid 12p1jha1 
A case series of flight attendants at risk of COVID-19 in South Korea in 2020
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has infected many individuals worldwide. Individuals in contact with unspecified people during their work, may be at risk of occupational exposure. On June 22, 2020, 1,435 overseas patients were identified in the Republic of Korea. Considering the influx of overseas patients, aircraft-mediated COVID-19 transmission is a major concern. CASE PRESENTATION: We presented two flight attendants diagnosed with COVID-19 who shared the crew's resting area and ground transportation, and discussed the risks experienced by flight attendants. CONCLUSIONS: Biosafety guidelines for cabin crews should be intensified, and their COVID-19 risks must be further investigated. Policymakers must consider comprehensive surveillance systems for workers with high risks of occupational exposures and transmissions, such as flight attendants. 

Result #2: uid phh53kaz 
Temporal and spatial analysis of COVID-19 transmission in China and its influencing factors
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to explore the temporal and spatial characteristics of COVID-19 transmission and its influencing factors in China from January to October 2020. METHODS: About 81,000 COVID-19 confirmed case data, Baidu migration index data, air pollutants, meteorological data, and government response strictness index data were collected from 31 provincial-level regions (excluding Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan) and 337 prefecture-level cities. The spatio-temporal characteristics of COVID-19 were explored using spatial autocorrelation, hot spot, and spatio-temporal scanning statistics. At the same time, Spearman rank correlation analysis and multiple linear regression were used to explore the relationship between influencing factors and confirmed COVID-19 cases. RESULTS: The distribution of COVID-19 in China tends to be stable over time, with spatial correlation and obvious clustering regions. spatio-temporal scanning analysis showed that most COVID-19 high incidence months were from January to March at the beginning of the epidemic, and the area with the highest aggregation risk was Hubei Province (RR = 491.57), which was 491.57 times the aggregation risk of other regions. Among the meteorological variables, the daily average temperature, wind speed, precipitation, and new COVID-19 cases were negatively correlated. The air pollution concentration and migration index were positively correlated with new confirmed cases, and the government response strict index was strongly negatively correlated with confirmed COVID-19 cases. CONCLUSIONS: Environmental temperature has a certain inhibitory effect on the transmission of COVID-19, and the air pollution concentration and migration index have a certain promoting effect on the transmission of COVID-19. The strict government response index indicates that the greater the intensity of government intervention, the fewer COVID-19 cases will occur. 

Result #3: uid qlcmnh4j 
The spatial clustering analysis of COVID-19 and its associated factors in mainland China at the prefecture level
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has become a worldwide public health threat. Many associated factors including population movement, meteorological parameters, air quality and socioeconomic conditions can affect COVID-19 transmission. However, no study has combined these various factors in a comprehensive analysis. We collected data on COVID-19 cases and the factors of interest in 340 prefectures of mainland China from 1 December 2019 to 30 April 2020. Moran's I statistic, Getis-Ord Gi⁎ statistic and Kulldorff's space-time scan statistics were used to identify spatial clusters of COVID-19, and the geographically weighted regression (GWR) model was applied to investigate the effects of the associated factors on COVID-19 incidence. A total of 67,449 laboratory-confirmed cases were reported during the study period. Wuhan city as well as its surrounding areas were the cluster areas, and January 25 to February 21, 2020, was the clustering time of COVID-19. The population outflow from Wuhan played a significant role in COVID-19 transmission, with the local coefficients varying from 14.87 to 15.02 in the 340 prefectures. Among the meteorological parameters, relative humidity and precipitation were positively associated with COVID-19 incidence, while the average wind speed showed a negative correlation, but the relationship of average temperature with COVID-19 incidence inconsistent between northern and southern China. NO2 was positively associated, and O3 was negatively associated, with COVID-19 incidence. Environment with high levels of inbound migration or travel, poor ventilation, high humidity or heavy rainfall, low temperature, and high air pollution may be favorable for the growth, reproduction and spread of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, applying appropriate lockdown measures and travel restrictions, strengthening the ventilation of living and working environments, controlling air pollution and making sufficient preparations for a possible second wave in the relatively cold autumn and winter months may be helpful for the control and prevention of COVID-19. 

Result #4: uid q0lab1t0 
Measuring the impact of mitigation measures on infection risk of covid-19 in Hong Kong since February 2020
Abstract: 
 Is it possible to control the covid-19 pandemic in large cities like Hong Kong? Many cities have adopted various mitigation measures to contain the covid-19 pandemic. But few studies have been made to measure the impact of mitigation measures on infection risk at city level such as Hong Kong. This paper introduced three indicators to measure the infection risk of covid-19 under mitigation measures: the infection rate, the primary risk of infection and daily risk of infection. Two factors are introduced to consider the impact of mitigation measures on infection risk in Hong Kong. They are the number of trips per day and the percentage of people wearing face masks. With these two mitigation measures, the daily risk of infection was reduced from 1826.11 per million to 644.58 per million in the peak of covid-19 infection on 2 August 2020. The covid-19 infection risk would be 2.83 times higher if above mitigation measures were not adopted. The covid-19 pandemic continues in 2021 and city governments are strongly recommended to take effective measures to encourage the public to reduce unnecessary trips and wear face mask before the pandemic is fully controlled. 

Result #5: uid skmugj9y 
Examining Population Health During the COVID-19 Pandemic: All-Cause, Pneumonia and Influenza, and Road Traffic Deaths in Taiwan
Abstract: 
 None 

