How are telehealth services used during the Covid-19 pandemic and what is their impact on the population health?

Result #1: uid wzf6nwh9 
An Untested and Uncooperative Pediatric Patient Undergoing a Dental Procedure Using a Negative Airflow Tent During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic: A Case Report
Abstract: 
 The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic prompted the creation of novel techniques to protect patients and health care providers. Simulations showed that disposable oxygen face tents act as a physical barrier and can be repurposed as a negative airflow tent. This case study presents a pediatric patient requiring dental surgery, ineligible for preoperative testing for COVID-19 due to developmental delay and aggression. Precautionary measures were taken by means of full personal protective equipment (PPE) and negative airflow tent. The tent added additional protection and is a promising new technique that is disposable, widely available, and offers full access to proceduralists. 

Result #2: uid rdkshiez 
Examination of exclusion criteria in total knee arthroplasty rehabilitation trials: influence on the application of evidence in day-to-day practice
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) rehabilitation trials use exclusion criteria, which may limit their generalizability in practice. We investigated whether patients seen in routine practice who meet common exclusion criteria recover differently from TKA compared to research-eligible patients. We hypothesized that research-ineligible patients would demonstrate poorer average postoperative function and slower rate of functional recovery compared to research-eligible patients. METHODS Patient characteristics and exclusion criteria were extracted and summarized from trials included in the three most recent systematic reviews of TKA rehabilitation. Trial participant characteristics were compared to a clinical dataset of patient outcomes collected in routine TKA rehabilitation. Where possible, individual exclusion criterion from the trials were applied to the clinical dataset to determine "eligible" and "ineligible" groups for research participation. Postoperative functional outcomes including the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and Timed Up and Go (TUG) were compared between "eligible" and "ineligible" groups using mixed effects models. RESULTS 2,528 participants from 27 trials were compared to 474 patients from the clinical dataset. Research participants were older, with lower Body Mass Index than patients in the clinical dataset. Many patients in the clinical dataset would be "ineligible" for research participation based upon common exclusion criteria from the trials. Differences were observed in average postoperative functioning between some "eligible" and "ineligible" groups in the clinical dataset. However, no differences were observed in functional recovery rate between groups, except for patients with diabetes whose TUG recovered more slowly than their "eligible" counterparts. CONCLUSIONS Many patients in the clinical dataset were "ineligible" for research participation based upon common TKA rehabilitation trial exclusion criteria. However, the postoperative recovery rate did not differ between "eligible" and "ineligible" groups based on individual exclusion criterion-except for individuals with diabetes. This suggests that both clinical and research populations may recover similarly from TKA. 

Result #3: uid xopd641l 
Communication and Virtual Visiting for Families of Patients in Intensive Care during COVID-19: A UK National Survey
Abstract: 
 RATIONALE Restriction or prohibition of family visiting to intensive care units (ICU) during the COVID-19 pandemic poses substantial barriers to communication, and family- and patient-centred care. OBJECTIVES Our objective was to understand how communication between families, patients and the ICU team was enabled during the pandemic. Secondary objectives were to understand strategies used to facilitate virtual visiting and associated benefits and barriers. METHODS Multi-centre, cross-sectional, self-administered electronic survey sent (June 2020) to all 217 UK hospitals with at least one ICU. RESULTS Survey response rate was 54%; 117/217 hospitals (182 ICUs). All hospitals imposed visiting restrictions with visits not permitted under any circumstance in 16% of hospitals (28 ICUs); 63% (112 ICUs) permitted family presence at end of life. Responsibility for communicating with families shifted with decreased bedside nurse involvement. A dedicated ICU family liaison team was established in 50% (106 ICUs) of hospitals. All but three hospitals instituted virtual visiting, although there was substantial heterogeneity in the videoconferencing platform used. Unconscious or sedated ICU patients were deemed ineligible for virtual visits in 23% of ICUs. Patients at end of life were deemed ineligible for virtual visits in 7% of ICUs. Commonly reported benefits of virtual visiting were reducing patient psychological distress (78%), improving staff morale (68%) and reorientation of delirious patients (47%). Common barriers to virtual visiting related to insufficient staff time, rapid implementation of videoconferencing technology, and challenges associated with family member ability to use videoconferencing technology or have access to a device. CONCLUSIONS Virtual visiting and dedicated communication teams were common COVID-19 innovations addressing restrictions to family ICU visiting, and resulting in valuable benefits in terms of patient recovery and staff morale. Enhancing access and developing a more consistent approach to family virtual ICU visiting could improve quality of care, both during and outside of pandemic conditions. 

Result #4: uid i603vq3x 
Successful incorporation of single reviewer assessments during systematic review screening: development and validation of sensitivity and work-saved of an algorithm that considers exclusion criteria and count
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Accepted systematic review (SR) methodology requires citation screening by two reviewers to maximise retrieval of eligible studies. We hypothesized that records could be excluded by a single reviewer without loss of sensitivity in two conditions; the record was ineligible for multiple reasons, or the record was ineligible for one or more specific reasons that could be reliably assessed. METHODS: Twenty-four SRs performed at CHEO, a pediatric health care and research centre in Ottawa, Canada, were divided into derivation and validation sets. Exclusion criteria during abstract screening were sorted into 11 specific categories, with loss in sensitivity determined by individual category and by number of exclusion criteria endorsed. Five single reviewer algorithms that combined individual categories and multiple exclusion criteria were then tested on the derivation and validation sets, with success defined a priori as less than 5% loss of sensitivity. RESULTS: The 24 SRs included 930 eligible and 27390 ineligible citations. The reviews were mostly focused on pediatrics (70.8%, N=17/24), but covered various specialties. Using a single reviewer to exclude any citation led to an average loss of sensitivity of 8.6% (95%CI, 6.0–12.1%). Excluding citations with ≥2 exclusion criteria led to 1.2% average loss of sensitivity (95%CI, 0.5–3.1%). Five specific exclusion criteria performed with perfect sensitivity: conference abstract, ineligible age group, case report/series, not human research, and review article. In the derivation set, the five algorithms achieved a loss of sensitivity ranging from 0.0 to 1.9% and work-saved ranging from 14.8 to 39.1%. In the validation set, the loss of sensitivity for all 5 algorithms remained below 2.6%, with work-saved between 10.5% and 48.2%. CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that targeted application of single-reviewer screening, considering both type and number of exclusion criteria, could retain sensitivity and significantly decrease workload. Further research is required to investigate the potential for combining this approach with crowdsourcing or machine learning methodologies. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13643-021-01632-6. 

Result #5: uid as6xkadp 
Population Age-Ineligible for COVID-19 Vaccine in the United States: Implications for State, County, and Race/Ethnicity Vaccination Targets
Abstract: 
 BackgroundWe examined the geographic and racial/ethnic distribution of the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine age-ineligible population (0-15 years old) in the U.S., and calculated the proportion of the age-eligible population that will need to be vaccinated in a given geo-demographic group in order to achieve either 60% or 75% vaccine coverage for that population as a whole. MethodsUS Census Bureau population estimates for 2019 were used to calculate the percent vaccine ineligible and related measures for counties, states, and the nation as a whole. Vaccination targets for the 30 largest counties by population were calculated. Study measures were calculated for racial/ethnic populations at the national (n=7) and state (n=6) levels. ResultsPercent of population ineligible for vaccine varied widely both geographically and by race/ethnicity. State values ranged from 15.8% in Vermont to 25.7% in Utah, while percent ineligible of the major racial/ethnic groups was 16.4% of non-Hispanic whites, 21.6% of non-Hispanic Blacks, and 27.5% of Hispanics. Achievement of total population vaccine coverage of at least 75% will require vaccinating more than 90% of the population aged 16 years and older in 29 out of 30 of the largest counties in the U.S. ConclusionsThe vaccine-ineligibility of most children for the next 1-2 years, coupled with reported pervasive vaccine hesitancy among adults, especially women and most minorities, means that achievement of adequate levels of vaccine coverage will be very difficult for many vulnerable geographic areas and for several racial/ethnic minority groups, particularly Hispanics, Blacks, and American Indians. 

