What studies are measuring risk factors  of daily life activities during COVID-19?

Result #1: uid bz9rd89p 
Aktueller Stand virtueller Simulatoren für die chirurgische Ausbildung in Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie
Abstract: 
 Practical surgical training in orthopedics and trauma surgery is becoming more and more difficult due to increasing economic pressure. In addition, more and more interventions are carried out on an outpatient basis. This particularly applies to arthroscopy, which also places high demands on the skills of the surgeon. Therefore, numerous virtual arthroscopy simulators have been developed over the past 20 years. These are virtual desktop systems that are coupled with a joint simulator, which allow tactile feedback. In this way basic arthroscopic skills (e.g. triangulation) or arthroscopic operations (e.g. partial meniscectomy) can be trained. The systems enable success control by recording various parameters (surgical time, camera and instrument path length, cartilage contact). Specific simulators already exist for all major joints. Scientific data are now available on face validity, content validity, construct validity and transfer validity of these systems. The skills learned can therefore be transferred to success in the operating room. The cost efficiency of these systems has so far not been resolved. Immersive virtual reality (VR) systems using 3D goggles and tactile hand sensors must be distinguished from desktop joint model systems. The participants usually join the application as an avatar. Immersive systems are therefore particularly suitable for simulating open surgical procedures (e.g. hip arthroplasty). Initial studies have also shown evidence for the use of immersive virtual reality for content, construct and transfer validity when training various open operations. Further developments are to be expected here in the future. 

Result #2: uid bz7w49h5 
Increasing passive compliance to wearing a facemask in children with autism spectrum disorder
Abstract: 
 The current study taught 6 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) to increase passive compliance of wearing a facemask across sequentially increasing durations of time. A changing-criterion design embedded within a nonconcurrent multiple baseline design was used to evaluate the effectiveness of a resetting differential reinforcement of other behavior (DRO) without escape extinction procedure on passive compliance. Terminal probe sessions determined DRO fading intervals. Results showed that 2 participants acquired mastery level passive compliance (30 min) without fading during the initial baseline sessions. The remaining 4 participants acquired mastery level passive compliance following fading intervals within the DRO intervention. Participants' passive compliance generalized across 2 novel settings. This study replicates previous studies and extends empirical support for the use of DRO without escape extinction interventions for increasing passive compliance with medical devices in children with ASD. 

Result #3: uid zzy8s78r 
Negative SARS-CoV-2 PCR or rapid antigen test result and the subsequent risk of being infectious: a mathematical simulation study
Abstract: 
 Background. A considerable proportion of SARS-CoV-2 transmission occurs from asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic cases. Therefore, different polymerase chain reaction (PCR)- or rapid antigen test (RAT)-based approaches are being discussed and applied to identify infectious cases that would have gone undetected (e.g., in nursing homes). In this article, we provide a framework to estimate the time-dependent risk of being infectious after a negative SARS-CoV-2 test and we simulate the number of expected cases over time in populations of individuals who initially tested negative. Methods. A Monte Carlo approach is used to simulate infections that occurred over a one-week period in populations with 1,000 individuals following a negative SARS-Cov-2 test. Parameters representing the application of PCR tests or RATs are utilized, and SARS-CoV-2 7-day incidences between 25 and 200 per 100,000 people are considered. Simulation results are compared to case numbers predicted via a mathematical equation. Results. The simulations showed a linear increase in cases over time in populations of individuals who initially tested SARS-CoV-2 negative. The different false negative rates of PCR tests and RATs have a strong impact on the number of simulated cases. The simulated and the mathematically predicted case numbers were comparable. However, Monte Carlo simulations highlight that, due to random effects, infectious cases can exceed predicted case numbers even shortly after a test was conducted. Conclusions. The analysis demonstrates that the number of infectious cases in a population can be effectively reduced by the screening of asymptomatic individuals. However, the time since the negative test and the underlying SARS-CoV-2 incidence are critical parameters in determining the observed subsequent number of cases in tested populations. 

Result #4: uid bz7tk6ec 
Uncertainty quantification and sensitivity analysis of COVID-19 exit strategies in an individual-based transmission model
Abstract: 
 Many countries are currently dealing with the COVID-19 epidemic and are searching for an exit strategy such that life in society can return to normal. To support this search, computational models are used to predict the spread of the virus and to assess the efficacy of policy measures before actual implementation. The model output has to be interpreted carefully though, as computational models are subject to uncertainties. These can stem from, e.g., limited knowledge about input parameters values or from the intrinsic stochastic nature of some computational models. They lead to uncertainties in the model predictions, raising the question what distribution of values the model produces for key indicators of the severity of the epidemic. Here we show how to tackle this question using techniques for uncertainty quantification and sensitivity analysis. We assess the uncertainties and sensitivities of four exit strategies implemented in an agent-based transmission model with geographical stratification. The exit strategies are termed Flattening the Curve, Contact Tracing, Intermittent Lockdown and Phased Opening. We consider two key indicators of the ability of exit strategies to avoid catastrophic health care overload: the maximum number of prevalent cases in intensive care (IC), and the total number of IC patient-days in excess of IC bed capacity. Our results show that uncertainties not directly related to the exit strategies are secondary, although they should still be considered in comprehensive analysis intended to inform policy makers. The sensitivity analysis discloses the crucial role of the intervention uptake by the population and of the capability to trace infected individuals. Finally, we explore the existence of a safe operating space. For Intermittent Lockdown we find only a small region in the model parameter space where the key indicators of the model stay within safe bounds, whereas this region is larger for the other exit strategies. 

Result #5: uid bzz1wolv 
Novel inhibition mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 main protease by ebselen and its derivatives
Abstract: 
 The global emergence of SARS-CoV-2 has triggered numerous efforts to develop therapeutic options for COVID-19 pandemic. The main protease of SARS-CoV-2 (Mpro), which is a critical enzyme for transcription and replication of SARS-CoV-2, is a key target for therapeutic development against COVID-19. An organoselenium drug called ebselen has recently been demonstrated to have strong inhibition against Mpro and antiviral activity but its molecular mode of action is unknown preventing further development. We have examined the binding modes of ebselen and its derivative in Mpro via high resolution co-crystallography and investigated their chemical reactivity via mass spectrometry. Stronger Mpro inhibition than ebselen and potent ability to rescue infected cells were observed for a number of ebselen derivatives. A free selenium atom bound with cysteine 145 of Mpro catalytic dyad has been revealed by crystallographic studies of Mpro with ebselen and MR6-31-2 suggesting hydrolysis of the enzyme bound organoselenium covalent adduct, formation of a phenolic by-product is confirmed by mass spectrometry. The target engagement of these compounds with an unprecedented mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 Mpro inhibition suggests wider therapeutic applications of organo-selenium compounds in SARS-CoV-2 and other zoonotic beta-corona viruses. 

