What is the diagnostic accuracy of the available COVID-19 tests?

Result #1: uid ct52mfv6 
Implementing the Collaborative Chronic Care Model in Mental Health Clinics: Achieving and Sustaining Clinical Effects
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE Collaborative chronic care models (CCMs) were established with implementation support in nine mental health clinics. This study sought to determine whether their clinical impact was maintained after implementation support ceased. METHODS Posttrial data were analyzed from a randomized stepped-wedge CCM implementation trial in general mental health clinics in nine Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. Sites received 1 year of implementation support, which was associated with reduced mental health hospitalization rates compared with non-CCM clinics in the same medical centers. Hospitalization rates for the year after implementation support were analyzed by using repeated measures logistic regression comparing the same clinics. RESULTS Hospitalization rates for the postsupport year did not differ from comparison clinics either in the population that initially showed the difference or the population active in the clinics at the end of the year of implementation support. CONCLUSIONS Clinical effects of the CCM may wane after cessation of active implementation support. 

Result #2: uid vxzp5ciz 
Pregnant Patients Using Opioids: Treatment Access Barriers in the Age of COVID-19
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES Before the COVID-19 pandemic, many pregnant patients experienced barriers in accessing opioid use disorder (OUD) medication. This project surveyed buprenorphine treatment clinics to determine how many accepted pregnant women before and then during the pandemic. Of those clinics accepting pregnant patients during the pandemic, respondents were asked what services were provided and what forms of payment they accepted. METHODS Between July and September 2020, phone contact was made with every sixth unduplicated clinic in North Carolina listed in the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration treatment locator (N = 490 clinics). The response rate was 53%. RESULTS Of the 128 clinics responding, 62 clinics (48%) failed to treat pregnant patients both before and during the pandemic, whereas 66 clinics (52%) accepted pregnant patients before the COVID-19 pandemic, with only 44 (66%) of these clinics accepting pregnant patients during the pandemic. Thus, 33% fewer clinics accepted pregnant women for OUD treatment. Of these 44 clinics, 52% provided same-day intake, 45% prescribed naltrexone, and 57% offered detoxification with opioid agonists. Self-pay (95%), private insurance (77%), and Medicaid (55%) were accepted as payment. Clinics commonly reported providing individual counseling (86%). No clinics provided childcare or transportation. CONCLUSIONS Almost half of the buprenorphine clinics in North Carolina turned away pregnant patients before the pandemic. During the pandemic, only 34% accepted pregnant patients, with 33% clinics that had provided medication treatment before the pandemic declining to treat pregnant patients for OUD. Thus, it is critical that policymakers ensure OUD treatment clinics accept pregnant patients. 

Result #3: uid c2yqnz5t 
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on neurofibromatosis clinical care and research
Abstract: 
 PURPOSE: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has had unprecedented impact on the provision of medical care for genetic disorders. The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of the pandemic on neurofibromatosis (NF) care and research. METHODS: Sixty-three United States NF clinics were surveyed to identify the impact of the pandemic on clinician role, patient volume, continuity of guideline-driven surveillance, research protocols, and use of (and satisfaction with) telehealth for the delivery of NF care. RESULTS: Fifty-two clinic directors or their representatives completed the survey (83% response rate). About 2/3 of the clinics reported a greater than 50% decrease in the number of available patient appointments, and modified clinical surveillance and research protocols. Fifty-one clinics (98%) newly instituted telehealth during the pandemic. Barriers to telehealth prior to the pandemic were insurance reimbursement concerns and lack of infrastructure. Since telehealth was initiated, high provider satisfaction was reported with ease of use. The most common area of concern was related to inability to perform a physical examination. CONCLUSION: Results show marked impacts on NF care and research since the beginning of the pandemic, with potential long-term changes related to the introduction (or adoption) of telehealth for clinical care. 

Result #4: uid mlxkeb1o 
Differences in patient satisfaction with virtual telephone clinics in a tertiary referral centre for otolaryngology during and after lockdown measures during the SARS-Cov2 pandemic
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION: The SARS-Cov2 pandemic has caused considerable disruption to provision of routine outpatient care. This pandemic has necessitated a more modern and innovative approach to clinics, which could potentially change outpatient organisation and improve efficiency in the long term. Telephone clinics are the most practical way to deliver healthcare at a distance. AIM: The purpose of the present study was to assess patient satisfaction with a virtual telephone clinic in a tertiary referral centre for otolaryngology first during the height of the SARS-Cov2 pandemic, and subsequently at a physical follow-up appointment after easing of “lockdown” measures. METHODS: Patients were enrolled prospectively via a telephone interview over a 1-week period during the height of the “lockdown” measures, and subsequently at a physical appointment when measures eased. RESULTS: Overall, patients responded very positively in the anonymised questionnaire at the time of their virtual appointment. However, at a subsequent physical appointment, there was a reduction in overall favourable responses from patients. While patients still thought virtual clinics were a good idea and convenient in the context of SARS-Cov2, we noted a reduction in satisfaction in other key aspects of their care. Notably, patients were less likely to think that virtual clinics were able to properly address their condition. CONCLUSION: While virtual clinics remain a useful tool during the height of lockdown measures during the SARS-Cov2 pandemic, we did note a significant reduction in favourable responses to virtual appointments over physical ones upon easing of lockdown measures. Patients remained cautious in suggesting that outpatient appointments may be replaced by virtual clinics. 

Result #5: uid jtjqqdqg 
The impact of a virtual cardiology outpatient clinic in the COVID-19 era
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Restrictions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic have demanded an innovative approach to provide appropriate patient review. We have been running virtual cardiology clinics as per Health Service Executive guidance. AIMS: Our study aims to determine how virtual clinics change practice vs traditional clinics. METHODS: A retrospective cohort analysis was conducted on patients attending cardiology clinics in our hospital from 6 January to 13 March 2020 (‘traditional clinic’, n = 1644), compared with clinics during the COVID-19 outbreak, from 16 March to 22 April 2020 (‘virtual clinic’, n = 691), with the same medical staff. RESULTS: There was no difference in age (61 vs 60), case mix or new vs return appointments in virtual vs traditional clinics. There were similar rates of clinic participation, 71.8% vs 74.2%. A lower proportion of investigations (e.g. imaging) were booked in virtual (38.5%) vs traditional (55.7%) clinics, p < 0.00001. Management changes (e.g. medication changes) were less frequent in virtual (19.9%) vs traditional (38.5%) clinics, p < 0.00001. However, the discharge rate was higher in virtual (28.8%) vs traditional (19.5%) clinics, p = 0.00003. CONCLUSION: This study highlights that virtual clinic consultations are associated with fewer investigations, fewer management changes, and increased discharge rates compared with traditional consultations. These practice changes would reduce costs and hospital outpatient congestion by avoiding unnecessary hospital reviews. Nonetheless, it is unknown whether patients requiring face-to-face consultations could be missed as a result of this virtual approach. Longitudinal studies are required to assess clinical outcomes as a result of these practice changes and whether patient satisfaction is altered. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11845-021-02617-z. 

