What are the pros and cons for various types of masks in children aged 6 to 12 for COVID-19 prevention? 

Result #1: uid fdik2v4d 
Impact of the Epithelial Lining Fluid Milieu on Amikacin Pharmacodynamics Against Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Even though nebulised administration of amikacin can achieve high epithelial lining fluid concentrations, this has not translated into improved patient outcomes in clinical trials. One possible reason is that the cellular and chemical composition of the epithelial lining fluid may inhibit amikacin-mediated bacterial killing. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to identify whether the epithelial lining fluid components inhibit amikacin-mediated bacterial killing. METHODS: Two amikacin-susceptible (minimum inhibitory concentrations of 2 and 8 mg/L) Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates were exposed in vitro to amikacin concentrations up to 976 mg/L in the presence of an acidic pH, mucin and/or surfactant as a means of simulating the epithelial lining fluid, the site of bacterial infection in pneumonia. Pharmacodynamic modelling was used to describe associations between amikacin concentrations, bacterial killing and emergence of resistance. RESULTS: In the presence of broth alone, there was rapid and extensive (> 6 − log(10)) bacterial killing, with emergence of resistance identified in amikacin concentrations < 976 mg/L. In contrast, the rate and extent of bacterial killing was reduced (≤ 5 − log(10)) when exposed to an acidic pH and mucin. Surfactant did not appreciably impact the bacterial killing or resistance emergence when compared with broth alone for either isolate. The combination of mucin and an acidic pH further reduced the rate of bacterial killing, with the maximal bacterial killing occurring 24 h following initial exposure compared with approximately 4–8 h for either mucin or an acidic pH alone. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that simulating the epithelial lining fluid antagonises amikacin-mediated killing of P. aeruginosa, even at the high concentrations achieved following nebulised administration. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40268-021-00344-5. 

Result #2: uid ean7pgsz 
The clinical impact of bacterial co-infection among moderate, severe and critically ill COVID-19 patients in the second referral hospital in Surabaya
Abstract: 
 Background: Data on the prevalence of bacterial co-infections among COVID-19 patients are limited, especially in our country, Indonesia. We aimed to assess the rate of bacterial co-infections in hospitalized COVID-19 patients and report the most common microorganisms involved and the antibiotic use in these patients. Methods: This study is a retrospective cohort study, among COVID-19 adult patients admitted to Universitas Airlangga Hospital Surabaya from 14 March-30 September 2020. The bacterial infection is defined based on clinical assessment, laboratory parameters, and microbiology results. Results: A total of 218 patients with moderate to critical illness and confirmed COVID-19 were included in this study. Bacterial infection was confirmed in 43 patients (19.7%). COVID-19 patients with bacterial infections had longer hospital length of stay (17.6 ± 6.62 vs 13.31±7.12), a higher proportion of respiratory failure, intensive care treatment, and ventilator use. COVID-19 patients with bacterial infection had a worse prognosis than those without bacterial infection (p<0.04). The empirical antibiotic was given to 75.2% of the patients. Gram-negative bacteria were commonly found as causative agents in this study (n = 39; 70.37%). Conclusion: COVID-19 patients with bacterial infection have a longer length of stay and worse outcomes. Healthcare-associated infections during intensive care treatment for COVID-19 patients must be carefully prevented. 

Result #3: uid lykmjvtv 
Article title: Risk factors for bacterial infections in patients with moderate to severe COVID-19: A case control study
Abstract: 
 Adverse outcomes in COVID-19 patients are not always due to the direct effects of the viral infection, but often due to bacterial co-infection. However the risk factors for such bacterial co-infection are hitherto unknown. A case control study was conducted to determine risk factors for bacterial infection in moderate to critical COVID-19. Out of a total of 50 cases and 50 controls, the proportion of cases with severe/critical disease at presentation was 80% in cases compared to 30% in controls (p<0.001). The predominant site was hospital acquired pneumonia (72%) and majority were Gram negative organisms (82%). The overall mortality was 30%, with comparatively higher mortality among cases (42% versus 18%) (p=0.009). There was no difference between procalcitonin levels in both groups (p=0.883). In multivariable logistic regression analysis, significant independent association was found with severe/critical COVID-19 at presentation (AOR: 4.42 times; 95% CI; 1.63-11.9) and use of steroids (AOR: 4.60; 95% CI 1.24-17.05). Notably, 64% of controls were administered antibiotics despite absence of bacterial co-infection or secondary infection. Risk factors for bacterial infections in moderate to critically ill patients with COVID-19 include critical illness at presentation and use of steroids. There is widespread empiric antibiotic utilization in those without bacterial infection. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 

Result #4: uid pv8djl4a 
Risk factors for bacterial infections in patients with moderate to severe COVID-19: A case-control study
Abstract: 
 Adverse outcomes in coronavirus infection disease-19 (COVID-19) patients are not always due to the direct effects of the viral infection, but often due to bacterial coinfection. However, the risk factors for such bacterial coinfection are hitherto unknown. A case-control study was conducted to determine risk factors for bacterial infection in moderate to critical COVID-19. Out of a total of 50 cases and 50 controls, the proportion of cases with severe/critical disease at presentation was 80% in cases compared to 30% in controls (p < 0.001). The predominant site was hospital-acquired pneumonia (72%) and the majority were Gram-negative organisms (82%). The overall mortality was 30%, with comparatively higher mortality among cases (42% vs. 18%; p = 0.009). There was no difference between procalcitonin levels in both groups (p = 0.883). In multivariable logistic regression analysis, significant independent association was found with severe/critical COVID-19 at presentation (AOR: 4.42 times; 95% CI: 1.63-11.9) and use of steroids (AOR: 4.60; 95% CI: 1.24-17.05). Notably, 64% of controls were administered antibiotics despite the absence of bacterial coinfection or secondary infection. Risk factors for bacterial infections in moderate to critically ill patients with COVID-19 include critical illness at presentation and use of steroids. There is widespread empiric antibiotic utilization in those without bacterial infection. 

Result #5: uid ve5k6mxw 
Near-Infrared Light Brightens Bacterial Disinfection: Recent Progress and Perspectives
Abstract: 
 Bacterial infection is a universal threat to public health, which not only causes many serious diseases but also exacerbates the condition of the patients of cancer, pandemic diseases, e g , COVID-19, and so on Antibiotic therapy has been used to be an effective way for common bacterial disinfection However, due to the misuse and abuse of antibiotics, more and more antibiotic-resistant bacteria have emerged as fatal threats to human beings At present, more than 700,000 patients die every year with bacterial infections because of the lack of effective treatment It is frustrating that the pace of development of antibiotics lags far behind that of bacterial resistance, with an estimation of 10 million deaths per year from bacterial infections after 2050 Facing such a rigorous challenge, approaches for bacterial disinfection are urgently demanded The recently developed near-infrared (NIR) light-irradiation-based bacterial disinfection is highly promising to shatter bacterial resistance by employing NIR light-responsive materials as mediums to generate antibacterial factors such as heat, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and so on This treatment approach is proved to be a potent candidate to accurately realize spatiotemporal control, while effectively eradicating multidrug-resistant bacteria and inhibiting antibiotic resistance Herein, we summarize the latest progress of NIR light-based bacterial disinfection Ultimately, current challenges and perspectives in this field are discussed © 2020 American Chemical Society 

