What features of SARS-CoV2 are targeted in vaccine development?  Seeking information on guiding principles for the design of COVID-19 vaccine strategies and analyses of the current COVID-19 vaccine landscape and the challenges. 

Result #1: uid rrv6odr8 
Reproductive health interventions for Inuit youth in the north: a scoping review
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Inuit have thrived in the northern regions of Canada and Alaska for thousands of years. Recent evidence suggests that Inuit in this region have experienced systemic barriers to reproductive health with resulting disparities in reproductive health-related outcomes including those among youth. Northern youth-focused reproductive health intervention research or evaluations have not to date been well summarized. The objective of this scoping review was to summarize the literature over the past twenty years focusing on reproductive health interventions for adolescents in northern Inuit communities. METHODS English-language articles from 2000 to 2020 were identified from seven scientific databases, a general internet search and a review of relevant websites. Two reviewers screened titles, abstracts and full texts and included articles if they mentioned a reproductive health intervention and pertained, directly or indirectly, to reproductive health for Inuit aged 10-19 in northern communities. RESULTS Seventeen articles met the inclusion criteria, across six themes: (1) Barriers to reproductive health interventions in the north; (2) Northern midwifery; (3) Northern birthing centres; (4) Fetal fibronectin tests for identifying high-risk pregnancies; (5) Prenatal education classes; and (6) Interventions to improve access to and quality of reproductive health supports. CONCLUSION Overall there is relatively limited evidence base specific to reproductive health interventions and northern Inuit youth. What does exist largely focuses on maternal health interventions and is inclusive of but not specific to youth. There is some evidence that youth specific educational programs, participatory action research approaches and the promotion of northern birthing centres and midwifery can improve reproductive health for adolescents and young mothers in northern Inuit communities. Future initiatives should focus on the creation and evaluation of culturally relevant and youth specific interventions and increasing community and youth participation in intervention research for better reproductive health. 

Result #2: uid lzwbyncw 
Abortion provision in Northern Ireland: the views of health professionals working in obstetrics and gynaecology units
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION Abortion became decriminalised in Northern Ireland in October 2019. Until that point there existed no evidence concerning the views of health professionals on decriminalisation or on their willingness to be involved in abortion care. The purpose of this study was to address this lack of evidence, including all categories of health professionals working in obstetrics and gynaecology units in Northern Ireland. METHODS The online survey was targeted at medical, nursing and midwifery staff working in the obstetrics and gynaecology units in each Health and Social Care (HSC) Trust in Northern Ireland. The survey was issued via clinical directors in each Trust using the REDCap platform. RESULTS The findings showed widespread support for decriminalisation of abortion up until 24 weeks' gestation (n=169, 54%). The majority of clinicians stated they were willing to provide abortions in certain circumstances (which were undefined) (n=188, 60% medical abortions; n=157, 50% surgical abortions). Despite regional variation, the results show that there are sufficient numbers of clinicians to provide a service within each HSC Trust. The results indicate that many clinicians who report a religious affiliation are also supportive of decriminalisation (n=46, 51% Catholic; n=53, 45% Protestant) and are willing to provide care, countering the assumption that those of faith would all raise conscientious objections to service provision. CONCLUSIONS The findings of this study are very encouraging for the development, implementation and delivery of local abortion care within HSC Trusts in Northern Ireland and should be of value in informing commissioners and providers about the design of a service model and its underpinning training programmes. 

Result #3: uid disjzba3 
SARS-CoV-2 was already in circulation in Northern Cyprus in the prepandemic period
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #4: uid cgh80egz 
Predictors of Hospitalization Among Older Adults with COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia: A Cross-Sectional Study of a Nationally Representative Sample
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to identify the predictors of hospitalization in older (≥60 years) patients with coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) in Saudi Arabia. METHODS: Patients were randomly selected from a COVID-19 database maintained by the Ministry of Health, Saudi Arabia. All patients were aged ≥60 years, had reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)-confirmed COVID-19, and were registered in the database during March 2020 to July 2020. Medical and sociodemographic characteristics were retrieved from the database. Additional data were collected by telephone interviews conducted by trained health professionals. Descriptive statistics and multiple logistic regression analyses were used to analyze the relationship between patient characteristics and the risk of hospitalization. RESULTS: Of the 613 included patients (51.1% females), more than half (57.3%) were between 60 to 69 years of age, and 53% (324/613) had been hospitalized. The independent predictors of hospitalization included age ≥65 years (OR = 2.35, 95% CI: 1.66–3.33, P < 0.001), having more than one comorbidity (OR = 1.55, 95% CI: 1.09–2.20, P = 0.01), diabetes mellitus (OR = 1.52, 95% CI: 1.09–2.11, P = 0.01), hypertension (OR = 1.40, 95% CI: 1.007–1.97, P = 0.04), chronic kidney disease (OR = 3.87, 95% CI: 1.41–10.58, P = 0.008), and history of hospital admission within the preceding year (OR = 1.69, 95% CI: 1.11–2.55, P = 0.013). Risk of hospitalization was lower in males (OR = 0.65, 95% CI: 0.43–0.90, P = 0.01) and in patients co-living with health care workers (OR = 0.64, 95% CI: 0.43–0.96, P = 0.03). CONCLUSION: Factors associated with higher risk of COVID-19-associated hospitalization should be used in prioritizing older adults’ admission. Future studies with more robust designs should be conducted to examine the risk of COVID-19-associated illness severity and mortality. 

Result #5: uid yww6ohpt 
Locating the Boundaries of the Nuclear North: Arctic Biology, Contaminated Caribou, and the Problem of the Threshold
Abstract: 
 This essay is a historical–geographical account of how scientists and public health officials conceptualized and assessed northern radioactive exposures in the late 1950s and 1960s. The detection of radionuclides in caribou bodies in northern Canada both demonstrated the global reach of nuclear fallout and revealed the unevenness of toxic relations and radioactive exposures. Following the documentation of the lichen–caribou–human pathway of exposure, Canadian public health officials became increasingly concerned about the possibility of heightened radioactive exposures among Indigenous northerners. Between 1963 and 1969, scientists and officials with Canada’s Radiation Protection Division (RPD) coordinated an interdepartmental monitoring program through which they sought to determine whether the consumption of contaminated caribou meat had caused radioactive exposure levels in northern communities to exceed the officially recognized “safe limits.” In 1969, the northern monitoring program was suspended after officials determined that radionuclide body burdens had not exceeded the threshold for radioactive exposures. While the RPD emphasized its development of a technoscientific approach to measuring radioactive body burdens, the legitimacy of the monitoring program was linked directly to interdepartmental relations within Canada’s colonial northern administration. I situate the northern monitoring program within broader shifts in public health approaches to radiation protection and use Gabrielle Hecht’s concept of nuclearity to demonstrate how RPD officials employed the logic of the threshold in their assessment of radioactive exposures. 

