When is it safe to discharge a COVID-19 patient with pneumonia?  Looking for guidelines on discharging COVID-19 patients. The following aspects are of interest: duration of SARS-CoV-2 virus shedding in bodily fluids  after remission and in asymptomatic patients; tests to document the lack of infectivity after infection, and the longest documented transmission.

Result #1: uid 9d1h38m6 
COVID-19 Under Origin and Transmission: A Data-Driven Analysis for India and Bangladesh
Abstract: 
 The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an exceptionally contagious and pathogenic viral disease brought about by the SARS-CoV-2 infection that was first detailed at Wuhan, China, and later it spreads everywhere throughout the world. It was a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like virus, and the primary host of this virus is bats, revealed through genome analysis. The intermediate medium between human and bats is still unknown, and it is quite contagious, resulting in rapid spreading of this disease. All things considered, there are no clinically endorsed medications or antibodies for this sickness, yet a few precautions and staying away from close contacts are suggested. The number of COVD-19 confirmed cases is rapidly increasing with higher mortality rates, more than other epidemics that occurred in the last century although it still fluctuates. We will analyze the COVID-19 outbreak situation considering confirmed cases, recoveries, mortality rate percentages, etc. India and Bangladesh are two geographically important countries, and we will also analyze the COVID-19 situation for these two countries either with similarities or differences. 

Result #2: uid mnhvgr8e 
The Socio-impact of COVID-19 positive patients in Bangladesh: A study on clinical data from a COVID-19 testing laboratory: SARS-CoV-2 molecular identification and clinical data analysis of associated risk factors from a COVID-19 testing laboratory of a coastal region in Bangladesh
Abstract: 
 Background and Aim: Outbreak of COVID-19 seems to have exacerbated across the globe, including Bangladesh. Scientific literature on the clinical data record of COVID-19 patients in Bangladesh is inadequate. Our study analyzes the clinical data of COVID-19 positive patients based on molecular identification and risk factor correlated with three variables (age, sex, residence) and COVID-19 prevalence in the four districts of Chattogram Division (Noakhali, Feni, Lakshmipur and Chandpur) with an aim to understand the trajectory of this pandemic in Chattogram, Southern Bangladesh. Methods: A cross-sectional study is conducted in the context of RT-PCR-based COVID-19 positive 5,589 individuals diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection from the COVID-19 testing laboratory, Abdul Malek Ukil Medical College, Noakhali-3800, Bangladesh. For molecular confirmation of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), standard diagnostic protocols through real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were conducted. Different patient demographics were analyzed using SPSS version 22 for exploring the relationship of three factors - age, sex, and residence with a cumulative number of COVID-19 positive cases and prevalence of COVID-19 in four districts in Chattogram division. The data was recorded between May to July, 2020. Results: Among the three parameters, the present study revealed that 20-40 cohort had the highest incidence of infection rate (51.80%, n=2895) among the different age groups. Among the infected individuals, 56.8% (n=3177) were male and 43.2% (n=2412) were female, denoting males being the most susceptible to this disease. Urban residents (52.7%, n=2948) were more vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2 infection than those residing in rural areas (47.3%, n=2641). The prevalence of COVID-19 positive cases among the four districts was recorded highest in the Noakhali district with 36.8% (n=2057), followed by the Feni, Lakshmipur and Chandpur districts with 25.9% (n=1448), 20.8% (n=1163) and 16.5% (n=921), respectively. Conclusions: This study presents a statistical correlation of certain factors linked to Bangladesh with confirmed COVID-19 patients, which will enable health practitioners and policy makers to take proactive steps to control and mitigate disease transmission. 

Result #3: uid cpktk66g 
Genomic and mobility data reveal mass population movement as a driver of SARS-CoV-2 dissemination and diversity in Bangladesh
Abstract: 
 Background New data streams are being used to track the pandemic of SARS-CoV-2, including genomic data which provides insights into patterns of importation and spatial spread of the virus, as well as population mobility data obtained from mobile phones. Here, we analyse the emergence and outbreak trajectory of SARS-CoV-2 in Bangladesh using these new data streams, and identify mass population movements as a key early event driving the ongoing epidemic. Methods We sequenced complete genomes of 67 SARS-CoV-2 samples (March-July 2020) and combined this dataset with 324 genomes from Bangladesh. For phylogenetic context, we also used 68,000 GISAID genomes collected globally. We paired this genomic data with population mobility information from Facebook and three mobile phone operators. Findings The majority (85%) of the Bangladeshi sequenced isolates fall into either pangolin lineage B.1.36 (8%), B.1.1 (19%) or B.1.1.25 (58%). Bayesian time-scaled phylogenetic analysis predicted SARS-COV-2 first appeared in mid-February, through international introductions. The first case was reported on March 8th. This pattern of repeated international introduction changed at the end of March when three discrete lineages expanded and spread clonally across Bangladesh. The shifting pattern of viral diversity across Bangladesh is reflected in the mobility data which shows the mass migration of people from cities to rural areas at the end of March, followed by frequent travel between Dhaka and the rest of the country during the following months. Interpretation In Bangladesh, population mobility out of Dhaka as well as frequent travel from urban hotspots to rural areas resulted in rapid country-wide dissemination of SARS-CoV-2. The strains in Bangladesh reflect the local expansion of global lineages introduced early from international travellers to and from major international travel hubs. Importantly, the Bangladeshi context is consistent with epidemiologic and phylogenetic findings globally. Bangladesh is one of the few countries in the world with a rich history of conducting mass vaccination campaigns under complex circumstances. Combining genomics and these new data streams should allow population movements to be modelled and anticipated rendering Bangladesh extremely well prepared to immunize citizens rapidly. Based on our genomics data and the country's successful immunization history, vaccines becoming available globally will be suitable for implementation in Bangladesh while ongoing genomic surveillance is conducted to monitor for new variants of the virus. 

Result #4: uid o429ihhy 
A multi-centre, cross-sectional study on coronavirus disease 2019 in Bangladesh: clinical epidemiology and short-term outcomes in recovered individuals
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) rapidly became a global pandemic. This study aimed to investigate severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) -associated epidemiology and clinical outcomes in Bangladesh in order to understand the future course of the COVID-19 pandemic and develop approaches to prevention. A cross-sectional study based on retrospective interviews was conducted on 1021 individuals with RT-PCR-confirmed COVID-19 admitted in six different hospitals in Bangladesh and who recovered 4 weeks before the interview date. Of the 1021 patients, 111 (10.9%) were asymptomatic and the other 910 (89.1%) were symptomatic. Higher prevalence of COVID-19 was found in the male population (75%), in cohorts with B-positive blood group (36.3%) and in the 31–40 years age group. Common symptoms observed in our study participants were fever (72.4%), cough (55.9%), loss of taste (40.7%) and body ache (40%); whereas among the biochemical parameters, neutrophil count (46.4%), D-dimer (46.1%) and ferritin (37.9%) levels were elevated. Among the recovered individuals, short-term outcomes including pains and aches (31.8%), weakened attention span (24.4%) and anxiety or depression (23.1%) were also significantly prevalent in the symptomatic cases with comorbidities. Our study showed that in Bangladesh, adult males aged between 31 and 40 years were more vulnerable to developing COVID-19. It also indicated a rising trend of asymptomatic cases as the pandemic progressed. As a consequence, deployment of interventions to curb further spread of community infection is necessary to avoid grave outcomes of COVID-19 in Bangladesh. 

Result #5: uid 6o2b01zb 
Is Population Density a Risk Factor for Communicable Diseases Like COVID-19? A Case of Bangladesh
Abstract: 
 Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated countries in the world struggling to prevent COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019). This study employed correlation, cluster analysis, and multiple linear regression analyses using district-wise COVID-19 infection and socioeconomic data. It is observed that there is a strong positive correlation (r = 0.876, P < .001) between population density and COVID-19, explaining a 60% variation in Bangladesh. The relationship between urbanization and COVID-19 is also positively strong (r = 0.802, P < .001). Urban settlements have a higher risk of spreading diseases due to the enormous population density. For future planning to prevent COVID-19 and other related infectious diseases, population density should be considered a risk factor. 

