What endocrine complications are  linked to COVID-19? Looking for studies investigating whether SARS-CoV-2 may directly attack the endocrine glands, which glands could be affected and what are the short- and long-term manifestations 

Result #1: uid aoiambb8 
Etiology of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections, Bangladesh, 2017
Abstract: 
 In April 2017, surveillance detected a surge in severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) in Bangladesh. We collected specimens from SARI patients and asymptomatic controls for analysis with multipathogen diagnostic tests. Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 was associated with the SARI epidemic, suggesting that introducing vaccines and empiric antiviral drugs could be beneficial. 

Result #2: uid g4w3kfy3 
A case of COVID-19 diagnosed with favipiravir-induced drug fever based on a positive drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test
Abstract: 
 As of October 2020, there is still no specific drug to treat COVID-19 as it rages worldwide. Favipiravir, indicated for the treatment of new and re-emerging influenza infections, has been suggested to be effective against SARS-CoV-2, although this is not yet fully validated. We administered favipiravir to a 64-year-old female patient with COVID-19. Her symptoms resolved quickly after the start of treatment, with reduction of SARS-CoV-2 viral load, but she developed a fever again on day 12. Since the fever was relieved by discontinuation of favipiravir, and based on positive results with a drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test, we diagnosed her with favipiravir-induced drug fever. A decrease in the serum concentration of favipiravir was observed along with resolution of the fever. The present case suggests that drug fever should be considered in the differential diagnosis of relapsing fever episodes in COVID-19 patients receiving favipiravir. 

Result #3: uid 3y8goxhj 
Study on the COVID-19 infection status, prevention and control strategies among people entering Shenzhen
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) confirmed cases overseas have continued to rise in the last months, and many people overseas have chosen to return to China. This increases the risk of a large number of imported cases which may cause a relapse of the COVID-19 outbreak. In order to prevent imported infection, the Shenzhen government has implemented a closed-loop management strategy using nucleic acid testing (NAT) for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and requiring 14 days of medical observation for individuals with an overseas tour history (Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan province and other countries). Our study aims to describe the status of COVID-19 infection among people entering Shenzhen, and to evaluate the effect of the closed-loop management strategy. METHODS: We undertook a descriptive study and risk analysis by the entry time, time of reporting, and local confirmed cases in countries of origin. The NAT were completed in Shenzhen Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), ten district-level CDCs, and fever clinics. RESULTS: A total of 86,844 people from overseas entered Shenzhen from January 1 to April 18, 2020; there were 39 imported COVID cases and 293 close contacts. The infection rate of people entering was 4.49‰ [95% Confidence interval (CI): 3.26‰–6.05‰]. Fourteen imported cases (35.9%) came from the UK, and nine (23.08%) came from the USA. People entering from the USA since March 9 or from the UK since March 13 are the high-risk population. As of July 17, there have been no new confirmed cases in Shenzhen for 153 days, and the numbers of confirmed case, close contacts, and asymptomatic cases are 0. CONCLUSIONS: The closed-loop management has been effective in preventing imported infection and controlling domestic relapse. The distribution of entry time and report time for imported cases overseas was similar. This shows that it is important to implement closed-loop management at the port of entry. 

Result #4: uid 668b3e8g 
COVID crossing
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #5: uid g63ed05i 
Fever: could a cardinal sign of COVID-19 infection reduce mortality
Abstract: 
 With mortality rising from the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be overlooking a key aspect of the immunological response. Fever is a cardinal sign of this rampant infection; however, little attention has been paid towards how a fever may work in our favor in overcoming this disease. Three key aspects of patient care – fever, fluid, and food–can be harmonized to overcome COVID-19 infection. Both animal and human studies have demonstrated that fever suppression during viral infections, either through low ambient temperatures or antipyretic use, may increase morbidity and prolong the illness. As fever rises, so do antidiuretic hormone levels, leading to solute-free water retention – making conservative fluid management essential. Finally, fever inhibits gastrointestinal function as energy is reallocated to the immunological response, underscoring the need to work in concert with these physiological changes. An opportunity awaits to investigate this natural barrier to infection, let us not pass it by. 

