What features of SARS-CoV2 are targeted in vaccine development? 

Result #1: uid hvo5zwhb 
End-to-End AI-Based Point-of-Care Diagnosis System for Classifying Respiratory Illnesses and Early Detection of COVID-19: A Theoretical Framework
Abstract: 
 Respiratory symptoms can be caused by different underlying conditions, and are often caused by viral infections, such as Influenza-like illnesses or other emerging viruses like the Coronavirus. These respiratory viruses, often, have common symptoms: coughing, high temperature, congested nose, and difficulty breathing. However, early diagnosis of the type of the virus, can be crucial, especially in cases, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Among the factors that contributed to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic were the late diagnosis or misinterpretation of COVID-19 symptoms as regular flu-like symptoms. Research has shown that one of the possible differentiators of the underlying causes of different respiratory diseases could be the cough sound, which comes in different types and forms. A reliable lab-free tool for early and accurate diagnosis, which can differentiate between different respiratory diseases is therefore very much needed, particularly during the current pandemic. This concept paper discusses a medical hypothesis of an end-to-end portable system that can record data from patients with symptoms, including coughs (voluntary or involuntary) and translate them into health data for diagnosis, and with the aid of machine learning, classify them into different respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. With the ongoing efforts to stop the spread of the COVID-19 disease everywhere today, and against similar diseases in the future, our proposed low cost and user-friendly theoretical solution could play an important part in the early diagnosis. 

Result #2: uid lfz7lwsp 
Diagnosis of COVID-19 and Non-COVID-19 Patients by Classifying Only a Single Cough Sound
Abstract: 
 In this study, we proposed a machine learning-based system to distinguish patients with COVID-19 from non-COVID-19 patients by analyzing only a single cough sound. Two different data sets were used, one accessible for the public and the other available on request. After combining the data sets, the features were obtained from the cough sounds using the mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) method, and then they were classified with seven different machine learning classifiers. To determine the optimum values of hyperparameters for MFCCs and classifiers, the leave-one-out cross-validation (LOO-CV) strategy was implemented. Based on the results, the k-nearest neighbors classifier based on the Euclidean distance (k-NN Euclidean) with the accuracy rate, sensitivity of COVID-19, sensitivity of non-COVID-19, F-measure, and area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.9833, 1.0000, 0.9720, 0.9799, and 0.9860, respectively, is more successful than other classifiers. Finally, the best and most effective features were determined for each classifier using the sequential forward selection (SFS) method. According to the results, the proposed system is excellent compared with similar studies in the literature and can be easily used in smartphones and facilitate the diagnosis of COVID-19 patients. In addition, since the used data set includes reflex and unconscious coughs, the results showed that conscious or unconscious coughing has no effect on the diagnosis of COVID-19 patients based on the cough sound. 

Result #3: uid 85fmof0j 
QUCoughScope: An Artificially Intelligent Mobile Application to Detect Asymptomatic COVID-19 Patients using Cough and Breathing Sounds
Abstract: 
 In the break of COVID-19 pandemic, mass testing has become essential to reduce the spread of the virus. Several recent studies suggest that a significant number of COVID-19 patients display no physical symptoms whatsoever. Therefore, it is unlikely that these patients will undergo COVID-19 test, which increases their chances of unintentionally spreading the virus. Currently, the primary diagnostic tool to detect COVID-19 is RT-PCR test on collected respiratory specimens from the suspected case. This requires patients to travel to a laboratory facility to be tested, thereby potentially infecting others along the way.It is evident from recent researches that asymptomatic COVID-19 patients cough and breath in a different way than the healthy people. Several research groups have created mobile and web-platform for crowdsourcing the symptoms, cough and breathing sounds from healthy, COVID-19 and Non-COVID patients. Some of these data repositories were made public. We have received such a repository from Cambridge University team under data-sharing agreement, where we have cough and breathing sound samples for 582 and 141 healthy and COVID-19 patients, respectively. 87 COVID-19 patients were asymptomatic, while rest of them have cough. We have developed an Android application to automatically screen COVID-19 from the comfort of people homes. Test subjects can simply download a mobile application, enter their symptoms, record an audio clip of their cough and breath, and upload the data anonymously to our servers. Our backend server converts the audio clip to spectrogram and then apply our state-of-the-art machine learning model to classify between cough sounds produced by COVID-19 patients, as opposed to healthy subjects or those with other respiratory conditions. The system can detect asymptomatic COVID-19 patients with a sensitivity more than 91%. 

Result #4: uid ew3g16xd 
Confronting COVID-19-associated cough and the post-COVID syndrome: role of viral neurotropism, neuroinflammation, and neuroimmune responses
Abstract: 
 Cough is one of the most common presenting symptoms of COVID-19, along with fever and loss of taste and smell. Cough can persist for weeks or months after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often accompanied by chronic fatigue, cognitive impairment, dyspnoea, or pain—a collection of long-term effects referred to as the post-COVID syndrome or long COVID. We hypothesise that the pathways of neurotropism, neuroinflammation, and neuroimmunomodulation through the vagal sensory nerves, which are implicated in SARS-CoV-2 infection, lead to a cough hypersensitivity state. The post-COVID syndrome might also result from neuroinflammatory events in the brain. We highlight gaps in understanding of the mechanisms of acute and chronic COVID-19-associated cough and post-COVID syndrome, consider potential ways to reduce the effect of COVID-19 by controlling cough, and suggest future directions for research and clinical practice. Although neuromodulators such as gabapentin or opioids might be considered for acute and chronic COVID-19 cough, we discuss the possible mechanisms of COVID-19-associated cough and the promise of new anti-inflammatories or neuromodulators that might successfully target both the cough of COVID-19 and the post-COVID syndrome. 

Result #5: uid o86ocefl 
SARS COV-2 virus-laden droplets coughed from deep lungs: Numerical quantification in a single-path whole respiratory tract geometry
Abstract: 
 When an infected person coughs, many virus-laden droplets will be exhaled out of the mouth. Droplets from deep lungs are especially infectious because the alveoli are the major sites of coronavirus replication. However, their exhalation fraction, size distribution, and exiting speeds are unclear. This study investigated the behavior and fate of respiratory droplets (0.1–4 μm) during coughs in a single-path respiratory tract model extending from terminal alveoli to mouth opening. An experimentally measured cough waveform was used to control the alveolar wall motions and the flow boundary conditions at lung branches from G2 to G18. The mouth opening was modeled after the image of a coughing subject captured using a high-speed camera. A well-tested k-ω turbulence model and Lagrangian particle tracking algorithm were applied to simulate cough flow evolutions and droplet dynamics under four cough depths, i.e., tidal volume ratio (TVR) = 0.13, 0.20. 0.32, and 0.42. The results show that 2-μm droplets have the highest exhalation fraction, regardless of cough depths. A nonlinear relationship exists between the droplet exhalation fraction and cough depth due to a complex deposition mechanism confounded by multiscale airway passages, multiregime flows, and drastic transient flow effects. The highest exhalation fraction is 1.6% at the normal cough depth (TVR = 0.32), with a mean exiting speed of 20 m/s. The finding that most exhaled droplets from deep lungs are 2 μm highlights the need for more effective facemasks in blocking 2-μm droplets and smaller both in infectious source control and self-protection from airborne virus-laden droplets. 

