How do cytokine pathways link sleep and immunity to infection and COVID-19?

Result #1: uid keyrbcpy 
A comprehensive review on potential therapeutics interventions for COVID-19. (Special section: Therapeutic targets and pharmacological treatment of COVID-19
Abstract: 
 COVID-19 is an infectious respiratory disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, a new beta coronavirus that emerged in Wuhan, China Being primarily a respiratory disease, it is highly transmissible through both direct and indirect contacts It displays a range of symptoms in different individuals and thus has been grouped into mild, moderate, and severe diseases The virus utilizes spike proteins present on its surface to recognize ACE-2 receptors present on the host cells to enter the cell cytoplasm and replicate The viral invasion of cells induces damage response, pyroptosis, infiltration of immune cells, expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (cytokine storm), and activation of the adaptive immune system Depending on viral load and host factors like age and underlying medical conditions, the immune responses mounted against SARS-CoV-2 may cause acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), multiple organ failure, and death In this review, we specify and justify both viral and host therapeutic targets that can be modulated to relieve the symptoms and treat the disease Furthermore, we discuss vaccine development in the time of pandemic and the most promising vaccine candidates by far, according to WHO database Finally, we discuss the conventional re-purposed drugs and potential alternative treatments as adjuvants 

Result #2: uid 8wmn6gt1 
Streptococcus pneumoniae and Its Virulence Factors H(2)O(2) and Pneumolysin Are Potent Mediators of the Acute Chest Syndrome in Sickle Cell Disease
Abstract: 
 Sickle cell disease (SCD) is one of the most common autosomal recessive disorders in the world. Due to functional asplenia, a dysfunctional antibody response, antibiotic drug resistance and poor response to immunization, SCD patients have impaired immunity. A leading cause of hospitalization and death in SCD patients is the acute chest syndrome (ACS). This complication is especially manifested upon infection of SCD patients with Streptococcus pneumoniae (Spn)—a facultative anaerobic Gram-positive bacterium that causes lower respiratory tract infections. Spn has developed increased rates of antibiotics resistance and is particularly virulent in SCD patients. The primary defense against Spn is the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during the oxidative burst of neutrophils and macrophages. Paradoxically, Spn itself produces high levels of the ROS hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) as a virulence strategy. Apart from H(2)O(2), Spn also secretes another virulence factor, i.e., the pore-forming exotoxin pneumolysin (PLY), a potent mediator of lung injury in patients with pneumonia in general and particularly in those with SCD. PLY is released early on in infection either by autolysis or bacterial lysis following the treatment with antibiotics and has a broad range of biological activities. This review will discuss recent findings on the role of pneumococci in ACS pathogenesis and on strategies to counteract the devastating effects of its virulence factors on the lungs in SCD patients. 

Result #3: uid bdh4efdm 
The neuropsychiatric manifestations of COVID-19: Interactions with psychiatric illness and pharmacological treatment
Abstract: 
 The recent outbreak of the corona virus disease (COVID-19) has had major global impact. The relationship between severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infection and psychiatric diseases is of great concern, with an evident link between corona virus infections and various central and peripheral nervous system manifestations. Unmitigated neuro-inflammation has been noted to underlie not only the severe respiratory complications of the disease but is also present in a range of neuro-psychiatric illnesses. Several neurological and psychiatric disorders are characterized by immune-inflammatory states, while treatments for these disorders have distinct anti-inflammatory properties and effects. With inflammation being a common contributing factor in SARS-CoV-2, as well as psychiatric disorders, treatment of either condition may affect disease progression of the other or alter response to pharmacological treatment. In this review, we elucidate how viral infections could affect pre-existing psychiatric conditions and how pharmacological treatments of these conditions may affect overall progress and outcome in the treatment of SARS-CoV-2. We address whether any treatment-induced benefits and potential adverse effects may ultimately affect the overall treatment approach, considering the underlying dysregulated neuro-inflammatory processes and potential drug interactions. Finally, we suggest adjunctive treatment options for SARS-CoV-2-associated neuro-psychiatric symptoms. 

Result #4: uid he5og1hn 
Parallels in the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and M. tuberculosis: a synergistic or antagonistic alliance
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #5: uid xyzetksf 
On inflammatory hypothesis of depression: what is the role of IL-6 in the middle of the chaos
Abstract: 
 Many patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) are reported to have higher levels of multiple inflammatory cytokines including interleukin 6 (IL-6). Recent studies both pre-clinical and clinical have advocated for the functional role of IL-6 in development of MDD and suggested a great potential for targeting this cytokine to open new avenues in pharmacotherapy of depression. The purpose of the present narrative review was to provide an integrated account of how IL-6 may contribute to development of depression. All peer-reviewed journal articles published before July 2020 for each area discussed were searched by WOS, PubMed, MEDLINE, Scopus, Google Scholar, for original research, review articles, and book chapters. Publications between 1980 and July 2020 were included. Alterations in IL-6 levels, both within the periphery and the brain, most probably contribute to depression symptomatology in numerous ways. As IL-6 acts on multiple differing target tissues throughout the body, dysregulation of this particular cytokine can precipitate a multitude of events relevant to depression and blocking its effects can prevent further escalation of inflammatory responses, and potentially pave the way for opening new avenues in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of this debilitating disorder. 

