What are the implications of the known COVID-19 reinfection cases for vaccination?

Result #1: uid kcq5gu23 
Antibody response to first and second dose of BNT162b2 in a cohort of characterized healthcare workers
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Vaccine-induced population immunity is a key global strategy to control coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The rapid implementation and availability of several COVID-19 vaccines is now a global health-care priority but more information about humoral responses to single- and double-dose vaccine is needed METHODS: 163 health care workers (HCW) of the Padua University Hospitals, who underwent a complete vaccination campaign with BNT162b2 vaccine were asked to collect serum samples at 12 (t12) and 28 (t28) days after the first inoculum to allow the measurement of SARS-CoV-2 Antibodies (Ab) using chemiluminescent assays against the spike (S) protein and the Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) of the virus, respectively. RESULTS Significant differences were found at t12 for infection-naïve and subjects with previous-natural infection who present higher values of specific antibodies, while no significant differences have been found between t12 and t28. No statistically significant difference was found between male and female, while lower Ab levels have been observed in subjects older than 60 years at t12 but not at t28. CONCLUSIONS Our study confirms observed differences in vaccine responses between infection-naïve and subjects with previous natural infection at t12 but not for a longer time. The influence of sex and age deserves further studies, even if the relationship with age seems particularly significant. 

Result #2: uid o3bketoa 
Comparison of IgG and neutralizing antibody responses after one or two doses of COVID-19 mRNA vaccine in previously infected and uninfected persons
Abstract: 
 Objective: To compare anti-SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor binding domain (RBD) IgG antibody concentrations and antibody-mediated neutralization of spike-ACE2 receptor binding in vitro following vaccination of non-hospitalized participants by sero-status and acute virus diagnosis history. Methods: Participants were studied before and after mRNA vaccination in a community-based, home-collected, longitudinal serosurvey; none reported hospitalization for COVID-19. Prior to vaccination, some reported prior positive acute viral diagnostic testing and were seropositive (COVID-19+). Participants who did not report acute viral diagnostic testing were categorized as seropositive or seronegative based on anti-spike RBD IgG test results. Primary measures were anti-spike RBD IgG concentration and percent antibody-mediated neutralization of spike protein-ACE2 interaction prior to vaccination, and after one or two doses of vaccine. Results: Of 290 unique vaccine recipients, 42 reported a prior COVID-19 diagnosis and were seropositive (COVID-19+). Of the 248 with no history of acute viral diagnostic testing, 105 were seropositive and 143 seronegative before vaccination. The median age was 38yrs (range 21-83) with 65% female and 35% male; 40% were non-white. Responses were evaluated after one (n=140) or two (n=170) doses of BNT162b2/Pfizer or mRNA-1273/Moderna vaccine. After one dose, median post-vaccine IgG concentration and percent neutralization were each significantly higher among the COVID-19+ group (median 47.7 ug/ml, IgG; >99.9% neutralization) compared to the seropositives (3.4 ug/ml IgG; 62.8% neutralization) and seronegatives (2.2 ug/ml IgG; 39.5% neutralization). The latter two groups reached >95% neutralization after the second vaccine dose. Conclusions: A prior outpatient COVID-19 diagnosis was associated with strong anti-spike RBD IgG and in vitro neutralizing responses after one vaccine dose. Persons seropositive for anti-spike RBD IgG in the absence of acute viral diagnostic testing, and those who were seronegative, required two doses to achieve equivalently high levels of IgG and neutralization activity. One mRNA vaccine dose is not sufficient to generate in vitro evidence of strong protection against COVID-19 among most persons previously infected with SARS-CoV-2, nor among seronegative persons. 

Result #3: uid pziwd2cp 
Effect Monitoring and Insights from Vaccination program of Healthcare Workforce from a tertiary level hospital in India against SARS-CoV-2
Abstract: 
 The Oxford-Astra Zeneca COVID 19 vaccine (AZD1222 or ChAdOx1) is an important part of the global vaccine roll-out against SARS-CoV-2, and a locally manufactured version (Covishield by Serum Institute, Pune, India) is the most commonly used vaccine in India. The vaccination program started in January 2021 and here we report effectiveness of the first dose of Covishield in generating antibody response and its kinetics. We further report differences in the quantitative antibody response amongst individuals who had pre-existing antibodies to SARS CoV2 and those who did not. In a group of 135 healthcare workers administered Covishield, we measured antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 directed against the spike protein (S-antigen) using Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S quantitative antibody detection kit (Roche Diagnostics) at days 0, 7, 14, and 28. In 44 subjects (32.5%) who had already developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 at day 0 (before immunization), it was observed that antibody response was significantly higher at each time point, with the maximum increase seen between days 0 and 7. In contrast the sero-negative group (n=91) started developing antibody response only after 14 days or later. Three sero-negative individuals did not develop any antibody response even at day 28 of vaccination. It is noted that median antibody response at 28 days in seronegative subjects was similar to that of seropositive subjects at baseline (day 0) and was on a rising trajectory. Our data suggests that ChAdOx1 is highly immunogenic, particularly so where previous SARS CoV2 antibody-response is established. Given the high background seropositivity in India, this may be useful in determining optimal timing of the second dose during mass immunization within the constraints of vaccine supply and administration. 

Result #4: uid 7xhd76fr 
Robust antibody responses in 70–80-year-olds 3 weeks after the first or second doses of Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, United Kingdom, January to February 2021
Abstract: 
 Sera were collected from 185 adults aged ≥ 70 years in London to evaluate the immune response to COVID-19 vaccines. A single dose of Pfizer/BioNtech vaccine resulted in > 94% seropositivity after 3 weeks in naïve individuals using the Roche Spike antibody assay, while two doses produced very high spike antibody levels, significantly higher than convalescent sera from mild-to-moderate PCR-confirmed adult cases. Our findings support the United Kingdom’s approach of prioritising the first dose and delaying the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. 

Result #5: uid jnilyw7w 
Antibodies against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in individuals with and without COVID-19 vaccination: A method comparison of two different commercially available serological assays from the same manufacturer
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: We compared two serological assays from Roche Diagnostics in individuals with and without COVID-19 vaccination, namely the Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 assay (detecting antibodies against the nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2) and the Elecsys Anti-SARS-CoV-2 S assay (detecting antibodies against the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2). METHODS: With both assays, we analyzed 3033 serum samples collected from 2496 patients without COVID-19 vaccination. In addition, we studied 34 healthcare-workers who received two injections of the BNT162b2 COVID-19 vaccine from BioNTech/Pfizer three weeks apart and who had repeatedly determined their antibody response by both assays. RESULTS: In our cohort of patients without COVID-19 vaccination, 62.9% of all determinations were negative with both Roche assays and 31.5% were positive with both assays. In 5.6% of our cohort, however, there were discordant results with both assays (partly because initially discordant results of the two assays became concordantly positive over time). In the healthcare-workers with the COVID-19 vaccination, the results of the Roche anti-nucleocapsid assay remained negative throughout the observation period of 5 weeks after vaccination. The initially negative antibodies against the spike protein became positive with the Roche assay in all samples two weeks after the initial injection, and the serum concentrations of anti-spike antibodies increased constantly until 4–5 weeks after the initial injection. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we provide information on serological testing with the two Roche assays, which may be important for the application of the two assays in clinical routine. There are differences in the pattern of antibodies in individuals with and without COVID-19 vaccination. 

