What are the interactions between innate and adaptive immune responses in COVID‐19?

Result #1: uid 56l3etpo 
Functional importance and diversity of fungi during standing grass litter decomposition
Abstract: 
 Although microbial participation in litter decomposition is widely known within terrestrial soils, the role and significance of microorganisms during the aerial standing litter phase of decomposition remains poorly investigated. We examined the fungi inhabiting standing leaf litter of Schizachyrium scoparium and Schizachyrium tenerum in a Longleaf Pine savanna ecosystem and estimated their contribution to litter decomposition. We identified fungal phylotypes associated with leaf litter and quantified leaf C mass loss, fungal biomass production, and microbial respiration during decomposition. These data were used to construct budgets estimating C flow into and through fungi. Significant losses in S. scoparium (55%) and S. tenerum (67%) leaf C mass were observed during standing decomposition along with concomitant increases in fungal biomass, which reached a maximum of 36 and 33 mgC/g detrital C, respectively. Cumulative fungal production during decomposition totaled 99 ± 6 mgC/g initial detrital C in S. scoparium and 73 ± 5 mgC/g initial detrital C in S. tenerum, indicating that 18 and 11% of the litter C was converted into fungal biomass, respectively. Corresponding estimates of cumulative fungal respiration totaled 106 ± 7 and 174 ± 11 mgC/g initial detrital C in S. scoparium and S. tenerum, respectively. Next generation sequencing identified several fungal phylotypes, with the majority of sequences belonging to the Ascomycota (Dothideomycetes) and Basidiomycota (Agaricomycetes). Fungal phylotypes were similar between litter species and changed over time, showing a successional pattern. These findings extend our understanding of fungal processes to standing litter in terrestrial ecosystems, and highlight the quantitative importance of fungi in C cycling processes. 

Result #2: uid 3sh3ubi1 
SARS-CoV-2, Uncontrolled Diabetes and Corticosteroids-An Unholy Trinity in Invasive Fungal Infections of the Maxillofacial Region? A Retrospective, Multi-centric Analysis
Abstract: 
 Objectives: Collate and analyse data of maxillofacial/rhino-cerebro-orbital fungal infections reported during the era of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the aim of investigating the common contributing factors leading to such infections and of highlighting the significance of this surge seen in patients infected with SARS-CoV-2. Method: This retrospective observational multi-centric study analysed patient data collected from clinicians belonging to different specialties in Bangalore, India. The data included the presentation and management of patients presenting with aggressive maxillofacial and rhino-cerebro-orbital fungal infections and explored the relationship between SARS-CoV-2, corticosteroid administration and uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. Results: All 18 patients were Covid positive. Sixteen of the 18 patients received steroids for Covid treatment and 16 patients were diabetic (of whom 15 patients who were diabetics received steroids for Covid-19 treatment). Loss of vision was noted in 12 of the 18 patients and 7 of them underwent orbital exenteration. The fungi noted was mucormycosis in 16 patients, aspergillosis in 1 patient and a mixed fungal infection in 1 patient. Eleven of the patients survived, 6 died and 1 was lost to follow-up. There was a significantly higher incidence of diabetes (p = 0.03) amongst these cohort of patients who were Covid-19 positive with mucormycosis. A significantly higher number (p = 0.0013) of patients were administered steroids at some point during the treatment. Conclusion: Despite the limited sample size, it is evident that there is a significant increase in the incidence of angioinvasive maxillofacial fungal infections in diabetic patients treated for SARS-CoV-2 with a strong association with corticosteroid administration. 

Result #3: uid tf96agov 
Occurrence of Invasive Pulmonary Fungal Infections in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Admitted to the ICU
Abstract: 
 Rationale: Whether severe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a significant risk factor for the development of invasive fungal superinfections is of great medical interest and remains, for now, an open question. Objectives: We aim to assess the occurrence of invasive fungal respiratory superinfections in patients with severe COVID-19. Methods: We conducted the study on patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)–related pneumonia admitted to five ICUs in France who had respiratory and serum sampling performed for specific screening of fungal complications. Measurements and Main Results: The study population included a total of 145 patients; the median age was 55 years old. Most of them were male (n = 104; 72%), were overweight (n = 99; 68%), and had hypertension (n = 83; 57%) and diabetes (n = 46; 32%). Few patients presented preexisting host risk factors for invasive fungal infection (n = 20; 14%). Their global severity was high; all patients were on invasive mechanical ventilation, and half (n = 73, 54%) were on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support. Mycological analysis included 2,815 mycological tests (culture, galactomannan, β-glucan, and PCR) performed on 475 respiratory samples and 532 sera. A probable/putative invasive pulmonary mold infection was diagnosed in 7 (4.8%) patients and linked to high mortality. Multivariate analysis indicates a significantly higher risk for solid organ transplant recipients (odds ratio, = 4.66; interquartile range, 1.98–7.34; P = 0.004). False-positive fungal test and clinically irrelevant colonization, which did not require the initiation of antifungal treatment, was observed in 25 patients (17.2%). Conclusions: In patients with no underlying immunosuppression, severe SARS-CoV-2–related pneumonia seems at low risk of invasive fungal secondary infection, especially aspergillosis. 

Result #4: uid v4z41zfk 
Fungal co-infection in COVID-19 patients: evidence from a systematic review and meta-analysis
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has infected tens of millions of people worldwide within the last year. However, the incidence of fungal co-infection in COVID-19 patients remains unclear. To investigate the association between fungal co-infection and mortality due to COVID-19, we systematically searched Medline, Embase, MedRxiv and Cochrane Library for eligible studies published in the period from 1 January to 1 December 2020. We performed a meta-analysis of nine studies that met the inclusion criteria. In total, data from 2780 patients and 426 patients were included who were admitted to the ICU. In eight of the articles, 211 participants died due to COVID-19 infection, which means an overall mortality rate of 10.9%. The overall pooled proportion of fungal co-infection in COVID-19 patients was 0.12 (95% CI = 0.07-0.16, n = 2780, I(2) = 96.8%). In terms of mortality in COVID-19 patients with fungal infection, the overall pooled proportion of mortality was 0.17 (95% CI = 0.10-0.24, n = 1944, I(2) = 95.6%). These findings provide evidence suggesting a favorable use for empirical antibiotics in the majority of patients when COVID-19 infection is diagnosed. Our analysis is investigating the use of antifungal therapy to treat COVID-19 can serve as a comprehensive reference for COVID-19 treatment. 

Result #5: uid uekndkvq 
The impact of COVID-19 pandemic on AIDS-related mycoses and fungal neglected tropical diseases: Why should we worry
Abstract: 
 The World Health Organization (WHO) considers mycetoma, chromoblastomycosis, and paracoccidioidomycosis to be fungal neglected tropical diseases (FNTDs). Depending on climatic, cultural, and economic contexts, these diseases have a similar geographical distribution as many other diseases, particularly tuberculosis (TB) and malaria, but are often less targeted by the national and many international healthcare systems. Another subgroup of fungal infections, such as candidiasis, cryptococcosis, pneumocystosis, histoplasmosis, and to a lesser extent, aspergillosis, are known as AIDS-related mycoses. Although antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been able to decrease the mortality rate of these diseases, particularly cryptococcosis, the disproportionately low distribution of funds to their diagnosis and treatment remains an obstacle in saving and improving the lives of patients affected. A new wave of viral diseases dubbed the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) hit the world at the end of 2019. Due to progressive symptoms and high mortality rates of COVID-19 compared to fungal infections, particularly the FNTDs, funding is currently allocated predominantly for diagnostic and therapeutic research on COVID-19. As a result, advances in FNTDs and AIDS-related mycosis care are considerably reduced. This paper explores the association between COVID-19, FNTDs, and AIDS-related mycoses with a predictive perspective. 

