How efficient are herd immunity approaches to COVID-19 containment?  

Result #1: uid rsu0ruos 
The impact of board characteristics and CEO power on banks’ risk-taking: stable versus crisis periods
Abstract: 
 We examine the impact of board structure, CEO power and other bank-specific factors on bank risk-taking for a sample of 72 publicly listed European banks in both stable and crisis periods. Using a simultaneous equations approach, our main findings indicate that the proportion of independent directors, the board size, and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) power affected bank risk-taking negatively during the recent financial crisis. On the contrary, institutional shareholder ownership and the presence of an ex-CEO as Chairman influenced bank risk-taking positively. Additionally, we separately analyse stable and crisis periods and observe that in the pre-crisis period only board independence and institutional ownership keep the same impact on risk while CEO power has no influence and the existence of an ex-CEO as Chairman reduces risk-taking by banks. We conclude that different governance characteristics have different relevance for banks' risk-taking contingent on the economic environment being one of stability or crisis. 

Result #2: uid myuj67dn 
Governance structures and practices in for-profit and not-for profit hospitals in Egypt
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Governance is a system that ensures and promotes accountability and responsibility toward stakeholders. The present study aims to compare the governance structures and practices in for-profit and non-for profit hospitals in Alexandria, Egypt. METHODS The study is a descriptive cross sectional study in which Chief Executive officers (CEOs) in all hospitals in Alexandria Governorate were interviewed. A predesigned questionnaire was used in the interview that is composed of four section. The first section explored characteristics of study hospitals. The second section assessed the composition and the characteristics of boards. The third section assessed the functions of the board and the fourth section assessed boards' training and evaluation. RESULTS A centralized board existed in the Health Insurance, Ministry of Health and Population and University hospitals. As for private hospitals, board existed in only 72 hospitals (82.75 %). Almost all boards have CEO duality. Board members were as few as two members in some boards and up to twenty members in others. Some hospital boards did not have an orientation manual or program. CONCLUSION A proportion of study hospitals does not have a governing board. For the hospitals with governing boards, there were wide variation in governance structures and practices. 

Result #3: uid 7g549hf0 
[Gender invisibility in the COVID-19 management: who are the policy decision-makers during the pandemic?]/ Invisibilidad de género en la gestión de la COVID-19: ¿quién toma las decisiones políticas durante la pandemia
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE: To analyse the gender composition of the advisory boards created for the management and policy decision-making during the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain. METHOD: A peer review was carried out to identify the advisory boards involved in the management of COVID-19 in the autonomous regions and in Spain. Name, number of members, sex and sources of information were collected, and the percentage of women was calculated. RESULTS: At the regional level, the composition of eleven advisory boards was identified, with a mean representation of women of 39.2%; 42.9% at the national level. 75% of all boards represented women below the parity threshold. CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant under-representation of women in the advisory boards for the COVID-19 management, which may limit a necessary feminist perspective for the crisis recovery. 

Result #4: uid 3lqgf3vd 
Analytical approach to solve the problem of aircraft passenger boarding during the coronavirus pandemic
Abstract: 
 The corona pandemic significantly changes the processes of aircraft and passenger handling at the airport. In our contribution, we focus on the time-critical process of aircraft boarding, where regulations regarding physical distances between passengers will significantly increase boarding time. The passenger behavior is implemented in a field-validated stochastic cellular automata model, which is extended by a module to evaluate the transmission risk. We propose an improved boarding process by considering that most of the passengers are travel together and should be boarded and seated as a group. The NP-hard seat allocation of groups with minimized individual interactions between groups is solved with a genetic algorithm. Then, the improved seat allocation is used to derive an associated boarding sequence aiming at both short boarding times and low risk of virus transmission. Our results show that the consideration of groups will significantly contribute to a faster boarding (reduction of time by about 60%) and less transmission risk (reduced by 85%) compared to the standard random boarding procedures applied in the pandemic scenario. 

Result #5: uid 0ov373l5 
Rethinking the Initial Board Certification Exam
Abstract: 
 None 

