When should an employee suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19 return to work?

Result #1: uid ean7pgsz 
The clinical impact of bacterial co-infection among moderate, severe and critically ill COVID-19 patients in the second referral hospital in Surabaya
Abstract: 
 Background: Data on the prevalence of bacterial co-infections among COVID-19 patients are limited, especially in our country, Indonesia. We aimed to assess the rate of bacterial co-infections in hospitalized COVID-19 patients and report the most common microorganisms involved and the antibiotic use in these patients. Methods: This study is a retrospective cohort study, among COVID-19 adult patients admitted to Universitas Airlangga Hospital Surabaya from 14 March-30 September 2020. The bacterial infection is defined based on clinical assessment, laboratory parameters, and microbiology results. Results: A total of 218 patients with moderate to critical illness and confirmed COVID-19 were included in this study. Bacterial infection was confirmed in 43 patients (19.7%). COVID-19 patients with bacterial infections had longer hospital length of stay (17.6 ± 6.62 vs 13.31±7.12), a higher proportion of respiratory failure, intensive care treatment, and ventilator use. COVID-19 patients with bacterial infection had a worse prognosis than those without bacterial infection (p<0.04). The empirical antibiotic was given to 75.2% of the patients. Gram-negative bacteria were commonly found as causative agents in this study (n = 39; 70.37%). Conclusion: COVID-19 patients with bacterial infection have a longer length of stay and worse outcomes. Healthcare-associated infections during intensive care treatment for COVID-19 patients must be carefully prevented. 

Result #2: uid qfrplujr 
[Structure of hospital care for COVID-19 patients up to July 2020 in Germany
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: Hospitalized coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients have a high morbidity and mortality and are often dependent on intensive care, especially mechanical ventilation Little is as yet known about COVID-19 patient allocation OBJECTIVES: Analysis of the structures of German hospital care for COVID-19 patients up to July 2020 in terms of number of beds and previous ventilation experience DATA AND METHODS: For the analysis of the care structures, only completed COVID-19 cases in which the virus was detected by a PCR test were evaluated Claims data from the German Local Health Care Funds (Allgemeine Ortskrankenkassen, AOK) were analysed The sample includes 17,094 COVID-19 cases that were treated in 1082 hospitals RESULTS: A total of 77% of all hospitals participated in the treatment COVID-19 patients and 48% of all hospitals provided intensive care for these patients One half of the hospitals that treated COVID-19 cases cared for 88% of all cases Although this suggests a centralization effect of COVID-19 cases in specific hospitals, the remaining 12% of the cases were distributed among many hospitals with often very small numbers of cases Furthermore, 23% of the ventilated COVID-19 cases were treated in hospitals with below-average ventilation experience CONCLUSIONS: In the context of increasing numbers of infections, it is both necessary to improve the allocation of hospitalized, and therefore potentially ventilated, COVID-19 cases by means of clearly defined and centrally controlled pyramid-type concepts and to continue to care for patients without COVID-19 For Germany, a comprehensive pyramid-type concept with a greater concentration in the best-qualified hospitals seems reasonable for the care of these patients with complex diseases 

Result #3: uid dvf7p8va 
A cross-sectional survey of COVID-19 preparedness in governmental hospitals of North-West Ethiopia
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION: The novel coronavirus was first reported in December 2019, from Wuhan, China, and it has been declared as a pandemic by World Health Organization on 7 January 2020, and from that time till now the disease transmitted across the world. Hospitals need to be prepared for the overwhelming COVID-19 cases in their respective hospitals. OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to assess the level of hospital preparedness for COVID-19 in South Gondar Zone Governmental Hospitals, 2020. METHODS: The institutionally based survey was conducted in South Gondar Zone Hospitals from 20 July to 25 July 2020. We used the World Health Organization preparedness checklist for COVID-19, and the checklist has three options for eight hospitals (not started, in progress, and started), so each hospital evaluated out of 208 points (104 items × 2) to assess each hospital their preparedness based on the checklist. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, Version 21, is used for the analysis of the data. We used descriptive statistics and explained by using text and tables. RESULTS: We evaluated all eight hospitals in these zone hospitals and only one hospital was in an acceptable level of preparation (>146 points), three hospitals were in an insufficient level of preparation (73–145 points), and the other four hospitals were grouped under the unacceptable level of preparation (<72 points) for COVID-19. And in all hospitals, there was no laboratory diagnostic method and treatment center for the COVID-19 virus. CONCLUSION: From the level of COVID-19 pandemic preparation from eight hospitals, only one hospital reaches the level of an acceptable level of preparedness. Mobilizing the community and other stakeholders to equip the hospital with resources and prioritization is recommended to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. 

Result #4: uid dfu93gy3 
Actions taken by US hospitals to prepare for increased demand for intensive care during the first wave of COVID-19: A national survey
Abstract: 
 Background The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic placed considerable strain on critical care resources. How United States (U.S.) hospitals responded to this crisis is unknown. Research question What actions did U.S. hospitals take to prepare for a potential surge in demand for critical care services in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic? Study design and methods From September to November 2020 we surveyed the chief nursing officers of a representative sample of U.S. hospitals regarding organizational actions taken to increase or maintain critical care capacity during the pandemic. We calculated weighted proportions of hospitals for each potential action in order to create estimates across the entire population of U.S. hospitals, accounting for both the sampling strategy and non-response. We also examined whether the types of actions taken varied by the cumulative regional incidence of COVID-19 cases. Results We received responses from 169 of 540 surveyed U.S. hospitals (response rate: 31.3%). Almost all hospitals canceled or postponed elective surgeries (96.7%) and non-surgical procedures (94.8%). Few hospitals created new medical units in areas not typically dedicated to health care (12.9%), and almost none adopted triage protocols (5.6%) or protocols to connect multiple patients to a single ventilator (4.8%). Actions to increase or preserve intensive care unit (ICU) staff, including use of ICU telemedicine, were highly variable, without any single dominant strategy. Hospitals experiencing higher incidence of COVID-19 did not consistently take different actions compared to hospitals facing lower incidence. Interpretation Responses of hospitals to the mass need for critical care services due to the COVID-19 pandemic were highly variable. Most hospitals canceled procedures to preserve ICU capacity and scaled up ICU capacity using existing clinical space and staffing. Future work linking hospital response to patient outcomes can inform planning for additional surges of this pandemic or other events in the future. 

Result #5: uid rex913k0 
COVID-19 and healthcare system in China: challenges and progression for a sustainable future
Abstract: 
 With the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak, healthcare systems across the world have been pushed to the brink. The approach of traditional healthcare systems to disaster preparedness and prevention has demonstrated intrinsic problems, such as failure to detect early the spread of the virus, public hospitals being overwhelmed, a dire shortage of personal protective equipment, and exhaustion of healthcare workers. Consequently, this situation resulted in manpower and resource costs, leading to the widespread and exponential rise of infected cases at the early stage of the epidemic. To limit the spread of infection, the Chinese government adopted innovative, specialized, and advanced systems, including empowered Fangcang and Internet hospitals, as well as high technologies such as 5G, big data analysis, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence. The efficient use of these new forces helped China win its fight against the virus. As the rampant spread of the virus continues outside China, these new forces need to be integrated into the global healthcare system to combat the disease. Global healthcare system integrated with new forces is essential not only for COVID-19 but also for unknown infections in the future. 

