Which interleukins and IL-inhibitors are involved in COVID-19 pathways?

Result #1: uid a28eqa2g 
Therapeutic potential of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) in preventing cytokine storm in COVID-19: review of current evidence
Abstract: 
 Since November 2019, SARS Coronavirus 2 disease (COVID-19) pandemic has spread through more than 195 nations worldwide. Though the coronavirus infection affects all age and sex groups, the mortality is skewed towards the elderly population and the cause of death is mostly acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). There are data suggesting the role of excessive immune activation and cytokine storm as the cause of lung injury in COVID-19. The excessive immune activation and cytokine storm usually occurs due to an imbalance in redox homeostasis of the individuals. Considering the antioxidant and free radical scavenging action of N acetyl cysteine (NAC), its use might be useful in COVID-19 patients by decreasing the cytokine storm consequently decreasing the disease severity. Therefore, we reviewed all the available resources pertaining to the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cytokine storm and the mechanism of action of NAC in preventing ROS. We also reviewed the use of NAC in COVID-19. 

Result #2: uid 5fh9vuw1 
Perspectives on Targeting IL-6 as a Potential Therapeutic Strategy for COVID-19
Abstract: 
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and has been a major threat to global public health. In Indonesia, the cases have rapidly increased, and the case fatality rate remains high. With COVID-19, most of the deaths have been caused by acute respiratory distress syndrome and dysregulation of the immune response. A lung biopsy from a patient with COVID-19 showed inflammatory cellular infiltration with diffuse alveolar damage. Massive pulmonary destruction has also been reported as a result of highly increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1β, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), induced protein 10 (IP-10), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). IL-6 is an inflammatory cytokine produced by various cell types, including immune cells and nonleukocytes, such as endothelial cells, fibroblasts, epithelial cells, type II pneumocytes, and certain tumor cells. Several studies have shown that IL-6 contributes to the severity and mortality of COVID-19. In this review, we would like to explore the immune response in COVID-19 and the role of IL-6 in the immunopathogenesis of COVID-19. 

Result #3: uid wvr3xxwt 
ACE2 as a key target for treatment of COVID-19 related cardiovascular diseases: current progress and prospect
Abstract: 
 ACE2 has long been known as an injury protective protein, it can protect a variety of organ damage such as heart, liver, kidney and lung. Especially in cardiovascular diseases, ACE2, as a negative regulator of RAAS, is an extremely important protective factor that mainly plays a role by converting Ang Ⅱ to Ang-(1-7). Nevertheless, with the recent outbreak of COVID-19, it was exposed that another identity of ACE2 is the entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2, which previously served as the entry receptor for SARS. With the in-depth clinical research, it was found that the severity and susceptibility of COVID-19 are related to cardiovascular disease, and SARS-CoV-2 binding to ACE2 receptor is also potentially associated with heart injury symptoms. Therefore, in this article, we mainly review the relationship between ACE2, COVID-19 and cardiovascular system diseases/heart injury. 

Result #4: uid tddvbk6r 
The role of SARS-CoV-2 target ACE2 in cardiovascular diseases
Abstract: 
 SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for the global coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, attacks multiple organs of the human body by binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) to enter cells. More than 20 million people have already been infected by the virus. ACE2 is not only a functional receptor of COVID-19 but also an important endogenous antagonist of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). A large number of studies have shown that ACE2 can reverse myocardial injury in various cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) as well as is exert anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-apoptotic and anticardiomyocyte fibrosis effects by regulating transforming growth factor beta, mitogen-activated protein kinases, calcium ions in cells and other major pathways. The ACE2/angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas receptor axis plays a decisive role in the cardiovascular system to combat the negative effects of the ACE/angiotensin II/angiotensin II type 1 receptor axis. However, the underlying mechanism of ACE2 in cardiac protection remains unclear. Some approaches for enhancing ACE2 expression in CVDs have been suggested, which may provide targets for the development of novel clinical therapies. In this review, we aimed to identify and summarize the role of ACE2 in CVDs. 

Result #5: uid yk7h6ixq 
Enzymatic activity of ACE2 regulates type 2 airway inflammation in mice
Abstract: 
 None 

