What is the role of corticosteroids in COVID-19?

Result #1: uid tkmi64g6 
Chloroquine nasal drops in asymptomatic & mild COVID-19: An exploratory randomized clinical trial
Abstract: 
 Background & objectives : Chloroquine (CQN) administered as nasal drops has the potential to achieve much greater local tissue levels than with oral/systemic administration. This trial was undertaken to study the efficacy and safety profile of topical nasal administration of CQN drops in reducing viral load and preventing clinical progression in early COVID-19 infection. Methods : This randomized clinical trial was done with a sample size of 60. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) confirmed asymptomatic patients or those with mild COVID-19 illness [National Early Warning Score (NEWS) =4] were included. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 manner. Control arm (standard supportive treatment, n=30) was compared with intervention arm (n=30) of standard treatment plus CQN eye drops (0.03%) repurposed as nasal drops administered six times daily (0.5 ml/dose) for 10 days. Outcome measures were adverse events and adherence; clinical progression and outcomes were measured by NEWS; sequential RT-PCR cycle threshold (Ct) values were also noted on days 0, 3, 7 and 10. Results : Nasal CQN was associated with local irritation in seven and non-compliance in one of 30 patients. Eleven patients were excluded due to enrolment error (2 - recovered; 9 - false-positive referral), and 49 patients were analyzed as per modified intention-to-treat analysis. Clinical recovery was noted as similar with 100 per cent asymptomatic by day seven in both arms. Virological outcomes also indicated similarly improving Ct values in both arms, and similar proportion of patients transitioning to non-infectivity by day 10 (controls - 19/25; nasal CQN - 15/24). Nine false-positive patients with enrolment error and day 0 RT-PCR negative were initially uninfected but had continuing COVID-19 exposure and treatment as per randomization. Patients receiving nasal CQN (n=5) demonstrated stable Ct values from day 0 to 10, while patients with no nasal CQN (n=4) demonstrated significant dip in Ct value indicating to infection (Ct< 35) and infectivity (Ct< 33). Interpretation & conclusions : The present study suggests to the potential of topical nasal CQN in the prevention of COVID-19 infection if administered before the infection is established. No significant differences in clinical or virological outcome were however, demonstrated in patients with mild but established illness. 

Result #2: uid pj1nnfty 
Evaluation of effects of chronic nasal steroid use on rhinological symptoms of COVID-19 with SNOT-22 questionnaire
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND: The benefits of corticosteroids for the treatment of COVID-19 infection are documented in the literature. The goal of the study is to compare the severity of rhinological symptoms of COVID-19 between patients with nasal steroid use (NSU) and the control group (CG) using the sino-nasal outcome test (SNOT-22) questionnaire. METHODS: A face-to-face survey was conducted at a second referral state hospital between. Patients with a complete recovery from COVID-19 were included in NSU and CG groups. Two subscales of the SNOT-22 were filled by the patients. The frequency and duration of smell and taste loss and SNOT-22 scores were compared between the two groups. RESULTS: Forty-seven patients were included in the study. Thirty-one patients were in CG and 16 patients in the NSU group. Twenty-four (51.1%) patients were females and 23 (48.9%) were males. The mean age was 41.4 ± 8.6 years. Olfactory dysfunction was detected in 12 (75%) patients in the NSU group, and 31 (93.3%) patients in the control group (CG). Gustatory dysfunction was seen in 10 (62.5%) patients in the NSU group and 24 (77.4%) patients NSU group. (p = 0.071, 0.279, respectively). The duration of the olfactory (6.6 ± 2.5 days) and gustatory dysfunction (6.1 ± 2.6 days) and the mean SNOT-22 total score (11.9 ± 1.6) was significantly lower in the NSU group (p < 0.001, CI 11.1–5.1, CI 9.9–4.6, CI 9.3–5.9, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Although nasal steroid use does not prevent olfactory and gustatory dysfunction in COVID-19 patients, it may reduce the severity and duration of these symptoms. 

Result #3: uid m5pwlisv 
Bilateral Postprocedural Rhinitis After Intravenous Sedation With Supplemental Nasal Oxygen (PRAISE SNOG) After Cataract Surgery
Abstract: 
 Rhinitis is classified as allergic or nonallergic. It presents with nasal congestion, nasal pruritus, posterior nasal drainage, rhinorrhea, and/or sneezing. During short procedures, nasal cannula administration of supplemental oxygen may be utilized to prevent hypoxia. Postprocedural rhinitis after intravenous sedation with supplemental nasal oxygen (PRAISE SNOG) - a noninflammatory variant of nonallergic rhinitis - has been observed in colonoscopy patients. Symptoms (sneezing and/or rhinorrhea with or without tearing) typically begin during emergence from sedation and persist for hours to days before resolving. A 66-year-old woman developed bilateral PRAISE SNOG following cataract extraction; her bilateral symptoms of nasal pruritus, rhinorrhea, and sneezing began immediately after awakening from sedation and spontaneously resolved within 24 hours. Mucosal irritation by the nasal cannula prongs that deliver the oxygen is a postulated pathogenesis for postprocedural rhinitis. Modification of the nasal prong composition (by using a soft silicon-based material), placement (by insertion prior to the induction of sedation and by not impinging on the nasal mucosa), and length (by trimming from 10 to two millimeters) are possible actions that might be initiated in order to prevent PRAISE SNOG. 

Result #4: uid v38kdzr8 
Delayed induction of type I and III interferons and nasal epithelial cell permissiveness to SARS-CoV-2
Abstract: 
 The nasal epithelium is a plausible entry point for SARS-CoV-2, a site of pathogenesis and transmission, and may initiate the host response to SARS-CoV-2. Antiviral interferon responses are critical to outcome of SARS-CoV-2. Yet little is known about the interaction between SARS-CoV-2 and innate immunity in this tissue. Here we applied single-cell RNA sequencing and proteomics to a primary cell model of human primary nasal epithelium differentiated at air-liquid interface. SARS-CoV-2 demonstrated widespread tropism for nasal epithelial cell types. The host response was dominated by type I and III IFNs and interferon-stimulated gene products. Nevertheless, this response was notably delayed in onset compared to viral gene expression, and thus failed to impact substantially on SARS-CoV-2 replication. However, when provided prior to infection, recombinant IFNβ or IFNλ1 induced an efficient antiviral state that potently restricted SARS-CoV-2 viral replication, preserving epithelial barrier integrity. These data suggest nasal delivery of recombinant IFNs to be a potential chemoprophylactic strategy. 

Result #5: uid 6vbseqoh 
Tissue distribution of SARS-CoV-2 in non-human primates after combined intratracheal and intranasal inoculation
Abstract: 
 None 

