Is there any scientific evidence that any of the alternative remedies can prevent or cure COVID-19?

Result #1: uid omq28yyx 
Ethnobotany, Pharmacological activities and Bioavailability studies of "King of Bitter" (Kalmegh): A Review (2010-2020
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Andrographis paniculata, commonly known as "Kalmegh", is an annual herbaceous plant from family Acanthaceae. The whole plant of A. paniculata has explored for multiple pharmacological activities and is scientifically recognized by in-vivo and in-vitro studies. Various biotechnologically engineered techniques have been explored to enhance the bioavailability of this plant. OBJECTIVE In this review, we aim to present comprehensive recent advances in the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, specific pharmacology, safety and toxicology and bioavailability of A. paniculata and its pure compounds. Possible directions for future research are also outlined in brief, which will encourage advance investigations on this plant. METHODS Information on the recent updates of the present review is collected from different electronic scientific databases such as Science Direct, PubMed, Scopus, and Google Scholar. All the composed information is classified into different sections according to the objective of the paper. RESULTS More than hundred research and review papers have been studied and incorporated in the present manuscript. After vast literature search of A. paniculata, we present a noteworthy report of various phytoconstituents present in plant, which are accountable for potential therapeutic properties of the plant. Forty-five of studied articles give general information about introduction, ethnobotany and traditional uses of the plant. Twenty-two papers enclosed information about the phytoconstituents present in different parts of A. paniculata and seventy-two papers briefly outlined the pharmacological activities like antioxidant, anti-dengue, anti-ulcerogenic, antifungal, some miscellaneous activities like activity against SARS-CoV-2, antidiarrhoeal. Nineteen studies highlighted the research work conducted by various researchers to increased bioavailability of A. paniculata and two studies reported the safety and toxicology of the plant. CONCLUSION This review incorporated the scientifically validated research work encompassing the ethnobotanical description of the subjected plant, phytochemical profile, various pharmacological activities, and recent approaches to enhance the bioavailability of active metabolites. 

Result #2: uid lmbo8k33 
Derivates variation of phenylalanine as a model disinfection by-product precursor during long term chlorination and chloramination
Abstract: 
 Dissolved nitrogenous organic matter in water can contain precursors of disinfection by-products (DBPs), especially nitrogenous DBPs (N-DBPs). Amino acids are ubiquitous as dissolved nitrogenous organic matter in source water and can pass through drinking water treatment processes to react with disinfectants in finished water and in the distribution system. Phenylalanine (Phe) was selected as a model amino acid precursor to investigate its derived DBPs and their variations during a chlorination regime that simulated water distribution with residue chlorine. The 7-day DBPs formation potential (DBPsFP) test with chlorine revealed chlorination by-products of phenylalanine including trihalomethanes (THMs), haloacetic acids (HAAs), haloacetonitriles (HANs), and halonitromethanes (HNMs), but not trichloronitromethane (TCNM) which was a significant N-DBP detected during the first 48 h of chlorine contact. The formation of most carbonaceous DBPs (C-DBPs) increased with chlorination time; however N-DBPs and non-chlorinated byproducts of phenylacetonitrile and phenylacetaldehyde reached their highest concentration after 2 h of reaction, and then gradually decreased until below detection after 7 days. The chlorination influencing factors indicated that light enhanced the peak yield of DBPs; the pH value showed different influences associated with corresponding DBPs; and the presence of bromide ions (Br-) generated a variety of bromine-containing DBPs. The DBPsFP test with chloramine reduced C-DBPs generation to about 1/3 of the level observed for chlorine disinfection and caused an increase in dichloroacetonitrile. Surveillance of DBPs during drinking water distribution to consumers should consider the varying contact times with disinfectants to accurately profile the types and concentrations of C-DBPs and N-DBPs present in drinking water. 

Result #3: uid 2wi5nax6 
Effect of oxidation ditch and anaerobic-anoxic-oxic processes on CX3R-type disinfection by-product formation during wastewater treatment
Abstract: 
 The high chlorine dosages in wastewater treatment plants during the COVID-19 pandemic may result in increased formation of disinfection by-products (DBPs), posing great threat to the aquatic ecosystem of the receiving water body and the public health in the downstream area. However, limited information is available on the effect of biological wastewater treatment processes on the formation of CX3R-type DBPs. This study investigated the effect of oxidation ditch (OD) and anaerobic-anoxic-oxic (AAO), two widely used biological wastewater treatment processes, on the formation of five classes of CX3R-type DBPs, including trihalomethanes (THMs), haloacetic acids (HAAs), haloacetaldehydes (HALs), haloacetonitriles (HANs) and halonitromethanes (HNMs), during chlorination. Experimental results showed that biological treatment effectively reduced the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and UV254, while it increased the dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), and therefore the ratio of DON/DOC. In addition, increases in the contents of soluble microbial product- and humic acid-like matters, and the transformation of high molecular weight (MW) fractions in the dissolved organic matter into low MW fractions were observed after OD and AAO processes. Although biological treatment effectively decreased the formation of Cl-THMs, Cl-HAAs, Cl-HANs and Cl-HNMs, the formation of DBCM, DBAA, BDCAA, DBCAA, DCAL, TCAL and DBAN (where C = chloro, B = bromo, D = di, T = tri) all increased significantly, due to the increased formation reactivity. Moreover, biological treatment increased the ratio of bromide/DOC and bromine incorporation into THMs, HAAs and DHANs except for HALs and THANs. Different from previous studies, this study revealed that biological treatment increased the formation of some DBPs, especially brominated DBPs, despite the efficient removal of organic matters. It provides insights into the DBP risk control in wastewater treatment, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Result #4: uid mfaj1yaa 
Water and wastewater as potential sources of SARS-CoV-2 transmission: a systematic review
Abstract: 
 An important group of viruses are Coronaviruses that affect the health of people worldwide, in particular the acute respiratory syndrome. The present work has addressed the updated literature on the topic of coronaviruses transmission through water and wastewater as well as identified gaps in research to inform future studies. In total, 198 articles were selected, then after screening, 48 eligible studies were fully reviewed. Accordingly, the studies showed that the coronavirus has been isolated and identified from water as well as wastewater. The results of researches show that the presence of SARS-Co-2 virus in municipal wastewater is possible due to the excretion of the virus in human feces. In addition, the SARS-Co-2 virus was isolated from contaminated water and rivers, but there is insufficient evidence for virus transmission by water and wastewater. Water and wastewater treatment methods are able to reduce the pollution load caused by this virus in water sources. Water disinfection has an effective role in removing it from water and wastewater sources. Due to the short period of time in the global pandemic and the small number of studies in this field, further studies are needed to make a definite statement about the transferability of virus in water and wastewater. 

Result #5: uid amqcultu 
Natural Products and Their Derivatives with Antibacterial, Antioxidant and Anticancer Activities
Abstract: 
 Natural products and their derivatives have been commonly used in our daily life, as they play important roles in boosting immune systems and fighting diseases [...]. 

