How do  mutations in SARS-CoV-2 impact its infectivity and antigenicity?

Result #1: uid rfbihylo 
Genomics and epidemiology of the P.1 SARS-CoV-2 lineage in Manaus, Brazil
Abstract: 
 Cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Manaus, Brazil, resurged in late 2020, despite previously high levels of infection. Genome sequencing of viruses sampled in Manaus between November 2020 and January 2021 revealed the emergence and circulation of a novel SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern. Lineage P.1, acquired 17 mutations, including a trio in the spike protein (K417T, E484K and N501Y) associated with increased binding to the human ACE2 receptor. Molecular clock analysis shows that P.1 emergence occurred around mid-November 2020 and was preceded by a period of faster molecular evolution. Using a two-category dynamical model that integrates genomic and mortality data, we estimate that P.1 may be 1.7-2.4-fold more transmissible, and that previous (non-P.1) infection provides 54-79% of the protection against infection with P.1 that it provides against non-P.1 lineages. Enhanced global genomic surveillance of variants of concern, which may exhibit increased transmissibility and/or immune evasion, is critical to accelerate pandemic responsiveness. 

Result #2: uid vxcaz6ea 
Sequence Analysis of 20,453 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Genomes from the Houston Metropolitan Area Identifies the Emergence and Widespread Distribution of Multiple Isolates of All Major Variants of Concern
Abstract: 
 Since the beginning of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic, there has been international concern about the emergence of virus variants with mutations that increase transmissibility, enhance escape from the human immune response, or otherwise alter biologically important phenotypes. In late 2020, several variants of concern emerged globally, including the UK variant (B.1.1.7), the South Africa variant (B.1.351), Brazil variants (P.1 and P.2), and two related California variants of interest (B.1.429 and B.1.427). These variants are believed to have enhanced transmissibility. For the South Africa and Brazil variants, there is evidence that mutations in spike protein permit it to escape from some vaccines and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. On the basis of our extensive genome sequencing program involving 20,453 coronavirus disease 2019 patient samples collected from March 2020 to February 2021, we report identification of all six of these SARS-CoV-2 variants among Houston Methodist Hospital (Houston, TX) patients residing in the greater metropolitan area. Although these variants are currently at relatively low frequency (aggregate of 1.1%) in the population, they are geographically widespread. Houston is the first city in the United States in which active circulation of all six current variants of concern has been documented by genome sequencing. As vaccine deployment accelerates, increased genomic surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 is essential to understanding the presence, frequency, and medical impact of consequential variants and their patterns and trajectory of dissemination. 

Result #3: uid 7uch0mn5 
Phylodynamic analysis in the understanding of the current COVID-19 pandemic and its utility in vaccine and antiviral design and assessment
Abstract: 
 Over the last decades, the use of phylogenetic methods in the study of emerging infectious diseases has gained considerable traction in public health. Particularly, the integration of phylogenetic analyses with the understanding of the pathogen dynamics at the population level has provided powerful tools for epidemiological surveillance systems. In the same way, the development of statistical methods and theory, as well as improvement of computational efficiency for evolutionary analysis, has expanded the use of these tools for vaccine and antiviral development. Today with the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), this seems to be critical. In this article, we discuss how the application of phylodynamic analysis can improve the understanding of current pandemic dynamics as well as the design, selection, and evaluation of vaccine candidates and antivirals. 

Result #4: uid t9natp1o 
Genetic epidemiology of variants associated with immune escape from global SARS-CoV-2 genomes
Abstract: 
 Many antibody and immune escape variants in SARS-CoV-2 are now documented in literature. The availability of SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences enabled us to investigate the occurrence and genetic epidemiology of the variants globally. Our analysis suggests that a number of genetic variants associated with immune escape have emerged in global populations. 

Result #5: uid d3y0ng4g 
Zooanthroponotic potential of SARS-CoV-2 and implications of re-introduction into human population
Abstract: 
 The emergence of alternate variants of SARS-CoV-2 due to ongoing adaptations in humans and following human-to-animal transmission has raised concern over the efficacy of vaccines against new variants. We describe human-to-animal transmission (zooanthroponosis) of SARS-CoV-2, and its implications for faunal virus persistence and vaccine-mediated immunity. 

