What computational predictions of SARS-CoV-2 mutations have been confirmed?

Result #1: uid 26y3lgvp 
Effects of fasting on patients with chronic kidney disease during Ramadan and practical guidance for healthcare professionals
Abstract: 
 There are an estimated 1.8 billion Muslims worldwide, with the majority of them choosing to fast during the month of Ramadan. Fasting, which requires abstinence from food and drink from dawn to sunset can be up to 20 hours duration during the summer months in temperate regions. Fasting can especially be challenging in patients on haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis, moreover, there is concern that those with Chronic Kidney Disease can experience electrolyte imbalance and worsening of renal function. In this paper, current literature is reviewed and a decision-making management tool has been developed to assist clinicians in discussing the risks of fasting in patients with CKD, with consideration also given to circumstances such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Our review highlights that patients with CKD wishing to fast should undergo a thorough risk assessment ideally within a month before Ramadan, they may require medication changes and a plan for regular monitoring of renal function and electrolytes in order to fast safely. Recommendations have been based on risk tiers (very high risk, high risk and low/moderate risk) established by the International Diabetes Federation and the Diabetes and Ramadan International Alliance. Patients in the ‘Very high risk’ and ‘High Risk’ categories should be encouraged to explore alternative options to fasting, those in the low/moderate category may be able to fast safely with guidance from their clinician. Prior to the commencement of Ramadan, all patients must receive up-to-date education on sick day rules, instructions on when to terminate their fast or abstain from fasting. 

Result #2: uid gh0v2dzz 
The effects of fasting in Ramadan on the risk factors of COVID-19 in adolescents: a brief review
Abstract: 
 Each year, many of Muslims including children and adolescents fast in Ramadan This year, the month of Ramadan is in the period of the outbreak of COVID-19, and due to its spread, fighting this disease has brought about a new challenge for all Muslims in the world Given the lack of studies on this issue, as well as the direct effect of fasting on the body and soul in the period of COVID-19 pandemic, this study intends to reflect the positive results of fasting in a mini-review Therefore, online databases such as Web of Science, Scopus, Medline, EMBASE and Magiran were screened using the key words including: "Fasting", "Ramadan", "COVID-19", "Coronavirus", "Obesity", "Mental health", "Muslim" for the latest information These keywords were searched from November 2001 to November 2020 in Persian and English languages This study revealed that fasting by reducing obesity can help people to control their diabetes and cardiac diseases which are among the underlying diseases of COVID-19 In addition, fasting has an effective role in reducing violence and social problems Interestingly, avoiding eating and drinking will reduce the contact of infected hands with mouth and reduces infection through swallowing 

Result #3: uid ihdvzayk 
Prognostic value of fasting hyperglycemia in patients with COVID-19 – Diagnostic test accuracy meta-analysis
Abstract: 
 AIMS: This meta-analysis aimed to assess the prognostic value of fasting hyperglycemia in patients with COVID-19. METHODS: A systematic literature search on PubMed, Embase, and Scopus were performed up until February 18, 2021. Fasting hyperglycemia was defined as fasting plasma glucose level above the reference value. The outcome of interest was poor outcome, which was a composite of mortality and severe COVID-19. The effect estimate was in odds ratio (OR). RESULTS: There were 9045 patients from 12 studies included in this systematic review and meta-analysis. The prevalence of fasting hyperglycemia was 29%. The incidence of poor outcome was 15%. Fasting hyperglycemia was associated with poor outcome in COVID-19 (OR 4.72 [3.32, 6.72], p < 0.001; I(2): 69.8%, p < 0.001). Subgroup analysis in patients without prior history of diabetes showed that fasting hyperglycemia was associated with poor outcome in COVID-19 (OR 3.387 [2.433, 4.714], p < 0.001; I(2): 0, p = 0.90). Fasting hyperglycemia has a sensitivity of 0.57 [0.45, 0.68], specificity of 0.78 [0.70, 0.84], PLR of 2.6 [2.0, 3.3], NLR of 0.55 [0.44, 0.69], DOR of 5 [3, 7], and AUC of 0.74 [0.70, 0.78] for predicting poor outcome. In this pooled analysis, fasting hyperglycemia has a 32% post-test probability for poor outcome, and absence of fasting hyperglycemia confers to a 9% post-test probability. Meta-regression and subgroup analysis showed that the sensitivity and specificity varies by chronic kidney disease but not by age, male (gender), hypertension, and chronic kidney disease. CONCLUSION: Fasting hyperglycemia was associated with mortality in COVID-19 patients, with or without diabetes. PROSPERO: CRD42021237997. 

Result #4: uid qqflhrhi 
The DAR 2020 Global survey : Ramadan fasting during COVID 19 pandemic and the impact of older age on fasting among adults with Type 2 diabetes
Abstract: 
 Objectives The DAR Global surveyof Ramadan-fasting during the COVID-19 pandemic aimed to describe the characteristics and care in participants with type 2 diabetes (T2D)with a specific comparison between those < 65years and>65 years. Methods Participantswere consented to answer aphysician-administered questionnairefollowing Ramadan 2020. Impact of COVID-19 on the decision of fasting,intentions to fast and duration of Ramadan and Shawalfasting, hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia eventswere assessed. Specific analysis comparing age categories of <65 years and>65years were performed. Results Among the 5865 participants, 22.5% were>65 years old. Concern for COVID-19 affected fasting decisionfor 7.6% (> 65years) vs 5.4% (<65years). More participants >65 years old did not fast (28.8% vs 12.7%,<65 years). Of the 83.6%, participantsfulfillingRamadan-fasting, 94.8%fasted >15 days and 12.6% had to break fast due to diabetes-related illness.The average number of days fasting within and post-Ramadan were 27 and 6 days respectively, regardless of age. Hypoglycaemia and hyperglycaemia occurred in 15.7% and 16.3% of participants respectively,with 6.5% and 7.4% requiringhospital care respectively. SMBGwas performed in 73.8% of participants and 43.5% received Ramadan-focused education. Conclusion During the COVID-19 pandemic, universally high rates of Ramadan-fasting were observedregardless of fasting risk level.Glycemic complications occurred frequently witholder adults requiring higher rates of acute hospital care. Risk stratification is essential followed bypre-Ramadan interventions, Ramadan-focused diabetes education and self-monitoringto reduce and prevent complications, with particular emphasis in older adults. 

Result #5: uid jvp5lolx 
Ramadan Fasting During the COVID-19 Pandemic; Observance of Health, Nutrition and Exercise Criteria for Improving the Immune System
Abstract: 
 Fasting is one of the religious rituals of Muslims worldwide who refrain from eating foods and liquids every year during Ramadan. This year (2020), Ramadan is very different from previous years due to the outbreak of a terrible microscopic giant called coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The pandemic COVID-19 has made Ramadan very important this year because the virus has infected millions of people around the world and killed thousands, especially people with immunodeficiency. In dealing with COVID-19, maintaining good hygiene and supporting the immune system are effective, preventive approaches. Moderate exercise training and proper nutrition are the most important factors to support immune function. Lack of facilities, poor health and many traditions that lead to public community gatherings have made many Islamic countries susceptible to this dangerous virus. In such an unprecedented situation, there are many Muslims who doubt whether they can fast or not. Therefore, the proposal of usable exercise programs and effective nutritional strategies is imperative. In this study, we will look at the proposed health effects of fasting and its impact on the immune system, the effects of Ramadan intermittent fasting on resting values and responses of immunological/antioxidant biomarkers in elite and recreational athletes, together with the important health, nutrition, and exercise advice that fasting people need to follow in the event of a COVID-19 outbreak. 

