How clean Is the air in passenger aircrafts and what are the COVID-19 risk reduction steps for airports and airlines?

Result #1: uid u8f1c3pe 
Characterizing genetic and antigenic divergence from vaccine strain of influenza A and B viruses circulating in Thailand, 2017–2020
Abstract: 
 We monitored the circulating strains and genetic variation among seasonal influenza A and B viruses in Thailand between July 2017 and March 2020. The hemagglutinin gene was amplified and sequenced. We identified amino acid (AA) changes and computed antigenic relatedness using the P(epitope) model. Phylogenetic analyses revealed multiple clades/subclades of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 and A(H3N2) were circulating simultaneously and evolved away from their vaccine strain, but not the influenza B virus. The predominant circulating strains of A(H1N1)pdm09 belonged to 6B.1A1 (2017–2018) and 6B.1A5 (2019–2020) with additional AA substitutions. Clade 3C.2a1b and 3C.2a2 viruses co-circulated in A(H3N2) and clade 3C.3a virus was found in 2020. The B/Victoria-like lineage predominated since 2019 with an additional three AA deletions. Antigenic drift was dominantly facilitated at epitopes Sa and Sb of A(H1N1)pdm09, epitopes A, B, D and E of A(H3N2), and the 120 loop and 190 helix of influenza B virus. Moderate computed antigenic relatedness was observed in A(H1N1)pdm09. The computed antigenic relatedness of A(H3N2) indicated a significant decline in 2019 (9.17%) and 2020 (− 18.94%) whereas the circulating influenza B virus was antigenically similar (94.81%) with its vaccine strain. Our findings offer insights into the genetic divergence from vaccine strains, which could aid vaccine updating. 

Result #2: uid 2lm0n6ie 
Variable seasonal influenza vaccine effectiveness across geographical regions, age groups and levels of vaccine antigenic similarity with circulating virus strains: A systematic review and meta-analysis of the evidence from test-negative design studies after the 2009/10 influenza pandemic
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND We examined the influence of some factors on seasonal influenza vaccine effectiveness (VE) from test-negative design (TND) studies. METHODS We systematically searched for full-text publications of VE against laboratory-confirmed influenza from TND studies in outpatient settings after the 2009/10 influenza pandemic. Two reviewers independently selected and extracted data from the included studies. We calculated pooled adjusted VE across geographical regions, age groups and levels of vaccine antigenic similarity with circulating virus strains, using an inverse variance, random-effects model. RESULTS We included 76 full-text articles from 11,931 citations. VE estimates against A(H1N1)pdm09, A(H3N2), influenza B, and all influenza were homogenous and point pooled VE higher in the Southern hemisphere compared with the Northern hemisphere. The difference in pooled VE between the Southern and Northern hemispheres was statistically significant for A(H3N2), influenza B, and all influenza. A consistent pattern was observed in pooled VE across both hemispheres and continents, with the highest point pooled VE being against A(H1N1)pdm09, followed by influenza B, and lowest against A(H3N2). A nearly consistent pattern was observed in pooled VE across age groups in the Northern hemisphere, with pooled VE mostly decreasing with age. Point pooled VE against A(H3N2), influenza B, and all influenza were statistically significantly higher when vaccine was antigenically similar to circulating virus strains compared with when antigenically dissimilar. Similar pattern was observed in the Northern hemisphere, but there was a lack of data from the Southern hemisphere. CONCLUSION Consistent patterns appear to exist in seasonal influenza VE across regions, age groups, and levels of vaccine antigenic similarity with circulating virus strains, with best vaccine performance against A(H1N1)pdm09 and worst against A(H3N2). The evidence highlights the need to consider geographical location, age, and vaccine antigenic similarity with circulating virus strains when designing and evaluating influenza VE studies. 

Result #3: uid s2g7gks1 
A cluster epidemic of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus infection in four captive cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus
Abstract: 
 In January 2019, four cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) kept at a Japanese zoo intermittently showed respiratory signs following the incidence of seasonal influenza in animal caregivers. Respiratory materials (saliva, sputum and food tray swabs) were non-invasively collected from the four cheetahs. Although we were unable to isolate the virus, the NP gene of influenza A virus was detected in three of the cheetahs but not in the fourth cheetah that had nearly recovered. From a food tray swab which tested weakly positive by a commercial influenza detection kit, we were able to obtain the whole-genome sequence of the influenza A virus. Analysis of the genome, A/cheetah/Kanagawa/2/2019(H1N1), revealed that the virus was closely related to influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 viruses isolated from humans in Japan in the 2018-2019 winter. Production of haemagglutinin inhibition (HI) antibodies (64-128 HI) against an A(H1N1)pdm09 virus in plasma samples confirmed infection of all four cheetahs. The animals continued to produce antibodies for at least 314 days after disease onset. These findings strongly suggest that reverse zoonotic transmission of A(H1N1)pdm09 virus occurred from human to cheetah and subsequently from cheetah to cheetah in the zoo. We also show that specimens can be safely and non-invasively collected from non-domesticated animals and used to investigate respiratory infectious diseases. 

Result #4: uid ohsyqhon 
Heterogeneity in transmissibility and shedding SARS-CoV-2 via droplets and aerosols
Abstract: 
 Background: Which virological factors mediate overdispersion in the transmissibility of emerging viruses remains a longstanding question in infectious disease epidemiology. Methods: Here, we use systematic review to develop a comprehensive dataset of respiratory viral loads (rVLs) of SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV-1 and influenza A(H1N1)pdm09. We then comparatively meta-analyze the data and model individual infectiousness by shedding viable virus via respiratory droplets and aerosols. Results: The analyses indicate heterogeneity in rVL as an intrinsic virological factor facilitating greater overdispersion for SARS-CoV-2 in the COVID-19 pandemic than A(H1N1)pdm09 in the 2009 influenza pandemic. For COVID-19, case heterogeneity remains broad throughout the infectious period, including for pediatric and asymptomatic infections. Hence, many COVID-19 cases inherently present minimal transmission risk, whereas highly infectious individuals shed tens to thousands of SARS-CoV-2 virions/min via droplets and aerosols while breathing, talking and singing. Coughing increases the contagiousness, especially in close contact, of symptomatic cases relative to asymptomatic ones. Infectiousness tends to be elevated between 1-5 days post-symptom onset. Conclusions: Intrinsic case variation in rVL facilitates overdispersion in the transmissibility of emerging respiratory viruses. Our findings present considerations for disease control in the COVID-19 pandemic as well as future outbreaks of novel viruses. Funding: Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) Discovery Grant program, NSERC Senior Industrial Research Chair program and the Toronto COVID-19 Action Fund. 

Result #5: uid cyb7h1it 
A host-based whole genome sequencing study reveals novel risk loci associated with severity of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 infection
Abstract: 
 Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus has remained in a seasonal circulation since being recognized in 2009. Although it followed a mild course in most patients, in others it caused a series of severe clinical illnesses. Epidemiologic studies have implicated that host factors have a major influence on the disease severity of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 infection. However, an understanding of relevant genetic variations and the underlying mechanisms is still limited. In this present study, we used a host-based whole genome sequencing (WGS) method to comprehensively explore the genetic risk loci associated with severity of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 infection. From the common single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) analysis, we identified the abnormal nominally significant (P < 1 × 10(−4)) common SNVs enriched in PTBP3 gene. The results of rare functional SNVs analysis supported that there were several novel candidate genes might confer risk of severe influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 diseases, such as FTSJ3, CPVL, BST2, NOD2 and MAVS. Moreover, our results of gene set based analysis indicated that the HIF-1 transcription factor and IFN-γ pathway might play an important role in the underlying mechanism of severe influenza A(H1N1)pdm09. These findings will increase our knowledge about biological mechanism underlying the severe influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 and facilitate to design novel personalized treatments. 

