What approaches are recommended for developing  children’s social and emotional coping skills during the COVID-19 pandemic?

Result #1: uid d2vpwuki 
Cancer, Mortality, and Acute Kidney Injury among Hospitalized Patients with SARS-CoV-2 Infection
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND To evaluate Coronavirus Disease 2019-(COVID19) patients treated within our academic medical system to determine if history of malignancy, both in general and specifically in genitourinary oncology patients, is associated with adverse clinical outcomes, including acute kidney injury (AKI) and mortality. METHODS We conducted a retrospective cohort study among patients with confirmed severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection in a multi-hospital, academic medical institution in New York City. Outcomes included mortality, intensive care unit (ICU) admission and AKI among hospitalized patients. We also evaluated risk of hospitalization among all patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Multilevel logistic regression models were used for analysis. RESULTS We identified 6,893 patients who met inclusion criteria, of which 4,018 were hospitalized. Among hospitalized patients 374 (9%) had a history of cancer, 281 (7%) experienced AKI, and 1,045 (26%) died. In adjusted analyses, patients with a history of cancer had 1.33 (95% CI = 1.05, 1.69) times the odds of death compared to those without cancer and this appeared to be driven by lung cancer (odds ratio (OR) = 2.44, 95% CI= 1.05, 4.39). Patients with a history of genitourinary cancer were not at higher risk of mortality compared to those without cancer (OR=0.99, 95% CI= 0.61, 1.62). History of cancer was not associated with ICU admission or AKI in overall and subgroup analyses. CONCLUSIONS Patients with a history of cancer who are hospitalized with SARS-CoV-2 infection are not at greater risk for AKI, though they are at higher risk for mortality as compared to patients without a history of cancer. The increased risk in mortality appears driven by patients with pulmonary neoplasms. Patients with a history of genitourinary malignancies do not appear to be at higher risk for AKI or for mortality compared to the general population. 

Result #2: uid ywfcktj8 
Correlation between family history and characteristics of breast cancer
Abstract: 
 Family history is a major risk factor for breast cancer; approximately 5-10% cases of breast cancer are associated with a family history. Herein, we investigated the link between family history and breast cancer features to elucidate the importance of family history in the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. Data from 10,549 patients with breast cancer were collected from 2014 to 2017. Detailed information about the family history of the patients including the degree and number of relatives affected and the types of cancer was recorded. The tumors were pathologically and clinically classified based on the stage, grade, ER, PR, HER2, Ki-67 status, and subtypes, according to standard guidelines. Data were analyzed using χ2 test and multiple logistic regression. Patients with a family history of other cancer types were significantly older at diagnosis than patients with a family history of breast/ovarian cancer (p = 0.002) and those without a family history of cancer (p < 0.001). Patients without a family history of cancer were typically diagnosed at a later stage, including high frequency in N2 (p = 0.035) and TNM stage III (p = 0.015). Compared with patients with second-/third-degree relatives, those with first-degree relatives having breast/ovarian cancer had a higher median age (54.1, p < 0.001) at diagnosis and showed more advanced disease. No significant difference was found between ER, PR, and HER2 status in patients with and without a family history of cancer. Family history of breast cancer can influence the cancer characteristics of the patients at diagnosis, especially patient age, tumor stage, and grade. 

Result #3: uid 80lp3xxb 
Disease History and Life History Predict Behavioral Control of the COVID-19 Pandemic
Abstract: 
 It is puzzling why countries do not all implement stringent behavioral control measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 even though preventive behaviors have been proven to be the only effective means to stop the pandemic. We provide a novel evolutionary life history explanation whereby pathogenic and parasitic prevalence represents intrinsic rather than extrinsic mortality risk that drives slower life history strategies and the related disease control motivation in all animals but especially humans. Our theory was tested and supported based on publicly available data involving over 150 countries. Countries having a higher historical prevalence of infectious diseases are found to adopt slower life history strategies that are related to prompter COVID-19 containment actions by the government and greater compliance by the population. Findings could afford governments novel insight into the design of more effective COVID-19 strategies that are based on enhancing a sense of control, vigilance, and compliance in the general population. 

Result #4: uid rxcofx6r 
Mortality and high risk of major adverse events in patients with COVID-19 and history of cardiovascular disease
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVE: History of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) may influence the prognosis of patients hospitalised for COVID-19. We investigated whether patients with previous CVD have increased risk of death and major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) when hospitalised for COVID-19. METHODS: We included 839 patients with COVID-19 hospitalised at the University Hospitals of Geneva. Demographic characteristics, medical history, laboratory values, ECG at admission and medications at admission were collected based on electronic medical records. The primary outcome was a composite of in-hospital mortality or MACE. RESULTS: Median age was 67 years, 453 (54%) were males and 277 (33%) had history of CVD. In total, 152 (18%) died and 687 (82%) were discharged, including 72 (9%) who survived a MACE. Patients with previous CVD were more at risk of composite outcomes 141/277 (51%) compared with those without CVD 83/562 (15%) (OR=6.0 (95% CI 4.3 to 8.4), p<0.001). Multivariate analyses showed that history of CVD remained an independent risk factor of in-hospital death or MACE (OR=2.4; (95% CI 1.6 to 3.5)), as did age (OR for a 10-year increase=2.2 (95% CI 1.9 to 2.6)), male gender (OR=1.6 (95% CI 1.1 to 2.3)), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (OR=2.1 (95% CI 1.0 to 4.2)) and lung infiltration associated with COVID-19 at CT scan (OR=1.9 (95% CI 1.2 to 3.0)). History of CVD (OR=2.9 (95% CI 1.7 to 5)), age (OR=2.5 (95% CI 2.0 to 3.2)), male gender (OR=1.6 (95% CI 0.98 to 2.6)) and elevated C reactive protein (CRP) levels on admission (OR for a 10 mg/L increase=1.1 (95% CI 1.1 to 1.2)) were independent risk factors for mortality. CONCLUSION: History of CVD is associated with higher in-hospital mortality and MACE in hospitalised patients with COVID-19. Other factors associated with higher in-hospital mortality are older age, male sex and elevated CRP on admission. 

Result #5: uid po3clfil 
Facing the pandemic in the dark: Psychopathic personality traits and life history strategies during COVID-19 lockdown period in different areas of China
Abstract: 
 The current research aims to examine variation in psychopathic personality traits and life history strategies during COVID-19 lockdown period in different areas of China. In Study 1 (N = 564), participants completed explicit measures of psychopathic traits and of life history strategy. To attenuate common method biases, Study 2 (N = 267) employed an alternative measure of psychopathy and an indirect measure of life history strategy, namely, future-discounting. Across two studies, we found consistent and significant evidence that participants from Wuhan, the initial epicenter of the pandemic, evidenced a faster life history strategy and a markedly higher level of psychopathic traits than did participants from Chongqing, which was less affected by the virus. Furthermore, a consistent pattern of correlation between life history strategy and psychopathy was observed across different groups of participants. We also replicated some previously reported studies but found that not all sex effects were consistent with life history in Chinese populations. Taken together, these findings suggest that individuals may show a high degree of variation in life history speed and psychopathic traits in response to unpredictable and adverse environments, which provide support for extended life history plasticity. 

