What studies are measuring risk factors  of daily life activities during COVID-19?

Result #1: uid n70yaeki 
The impact of COVID-19 in Dravet syndrome: A UK survey
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES: To understand the risks, impact and outcome of COVID-19 in people affected by Dravet Syndrome (DS). MATERIALS AND METHODS: An anonymous cross-sectional online survey was conducted between June 17 and July 13, 2020, addressed to families of people with DS. RESULTS: A total of 116 responses were collected, from families of children (n = 86; 74%) and adults (30; 26%) with DS. The majority (106; 91%) were shielded at the family home during lockdown. Symptoms compatible with COVID-19 were reported in 22 (19%) individuals. Only four individuals with symptoms had a PCR swab test, none of which was positive. Only one symptomatic person had antibody testing (but not swab testing), which was positive. One person had repeatedly positive swab tests whilst in hospital for renal failure, but had no typical symptoms of COVID-19. In 50% of people with DS who developed possible or probable COVID-19 symptoms, seizure worsening was reported, in terms of increased seizure frequency or duration or both. Medical attention was required in 9/22 (41%), all of whom were children. CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of people with DS, we observed an infection rate, determined by compatible symptoms, of 19%, with no deaths and benign outcome in most cases despite the underlying complex epilepsy although children often required medical attention. Early adoption of preventative measures, including testing of symptomatic individuals, regular surveillance for people living in residential care facilities, and shielding of individuals with comorbidities increasing the risk of severe outcome, may limit the impact of COVID-19. 

Result #2: uid 7huqxige 
A Cross-sectional Survey on the Impact of Coronavirus Disease 2019 on the Clinical Practice of Endodontists across the United States
Abstract: 
 This survey investigated the effect of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on the clinical practice of endodontics among the American Association of Endodontists (AAE) members by evaluating the impact on clinical activities, patient screening, infection control measurements, potential transmission, clinical protocols, as well as psychological concerns. A descriptive, cross-sectional survey was developed to query AAE members from all 7 districts. The survey consisted of 24 questions, 8 demographic questions and 16 questions related to the COVID-19 pandemic impact on the clinical practice. A total of 454 AAE members participated in the survey. As of July 2020, most endodontists were active in front-line treatment of dental patients (82%). N95 respirator face mask was described by 83.1% of the participants as special measures beyond the regular personal protective equipment. Rubber dam isolation was recognized by the majority of the participants at some level to reduce the chance of COVID-19 cross infection. Most of the endodontist participants acknowledged trauma followed by swelling, pain, and postoperative complication to be emergencies. The majority of respondents reported being concerned about the effect of COVID-19 on their practice. No differences in worries about COVID-19 infection were related to demographics (P > .05). The majority of the endodontists are aware of the COVID-19 pandemic, are taking special precautions, and are concerned about contracting and spreading the virus. Despite the conflict between their roles as health care providers and family members with the potential risk of exposing their families, most of them remain on duty providing front-line care for dental treatment. 

Result #3: uid a2zzavva 
nObesity as an Adipose tissue dysfunction disease and A Risk Factor for Infections – Covid-19 as a case study
Abstract: 
 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV2) disease (COVID-19) is a novel threat that hampers life expectancy especially in obese individuals Though this association is clinically relevant, the underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated SARS CoV2 enters host cells via the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2 receptor, that is also expressed in adipose tissue Moreover, adipose tissue is also a source of many proinflammatory mediators and adipokines that might enhance the characteristic COVID-19 cytokine storm due to a chronic low-grade inflammatory preconditioning Further obesity-dependent thoracic mechanical constraints may also incise negatively into the prognosis of obese subjects with COVID-19 This review summarizes the current body of knowledge on the obesity-dependent circumstances triggering an increased risk for COVID-19 severity, and their clinical relevance 

Result #4: uid 01rs0xr7 
Maladies infectieuses
Abstract: 
 What's new in infectious diseases in 2020 ? This year has been marked by the COVID-19 pandemic, prompting a review of the current knowledge on SARS-CoV-2 and its management in this article The results of the Swiss project « PIRATE » indicate non-inferiority between CRP-guided antibiotic durations or fixed 7-day durations and 14-day durations for Gram-negative bacteremia A Mongolian study did not show any benefit of vitamin D substitution in protecting children from tuberculosis Baloxavir, a new antiviral against the flu, has been approved by Swissmedic Finally, new American recommendations for therapeutic monitoring of vancomycin and universal screening for hepatitis C virus have been published Que dire des nouveautés en maladies infectieuses en 2020 ? L’année a été marquée évidemment par la pandémie du Covid-19, motivant une revue dans cet article, des connaissances actuelles sur le SARS-CoV-2 et de sa prise en charge Les résultats du projet suisse PIRATE ont montré une non-infériorité pour les bactériémies Gram négatif entre une antibiothérapie de 7 jours ou guidée par la CRP face à une durée de 14 jours Une étude mongolienne n’a pas permis de montrer le bénéfice d’une substitution en vitamine D chez les enfants sur l’incidence de la tuberculose Le baloxavir, un nouvel antiviral contre la grippe, a été approuvé par Swissmedic Et enfin, des nouvelles recommandations américaines sur le monitoring thérapeutique de la vancomycine et sur le dépistage universel de l’hépatite C ont été publiées 

Result #5: uid 3ky3btb0 
Making policy decisions under plural uncertainty: responding to the COVID-19 pandemic
Abstract: 
 In this paper, I contend that the uncertainty faced by policy-makers in the COVID-19 pandemic goes beyond the one modelled in standard decision theory. A philosophical analysis of the nature of this uncertainty could suggest some principles to guide policy-making. 

