What endocrine complications are  linked to COVID-19?

Result #1: uid c8dh6ofu 
Omega Loop Gastroileal Bypass (OLGIBP/SAGI) Versus One Anastomosis Gastric Bypass (OAGB): Medium-Term Results
Abstract: 
 INTRODUCTION In bariatric surgery, new surgical techniques are continually being developed. The one anastomosis gastric bypass (OAGB) has become increasingly common since 2001. However, some patients experience bile reflux or excessive weight loss. This study aimed to assess a new bariatric procedure designed to avoid some of the drawbacks of conventional OAGB. MATERIAL AND METHODS To lower the complication rate and pathophysiological impact after OAGB, we performed an omega loop gastroileal bypass (OLGIBP/SAGI) with a 300-cm common limb. We compared this technique with OAGB. RESULTS Seventeen patients underwent OLGIBP and 23 underwent OAGB. Mean operative time was 108 min for OLGIBP vs 103 min for OAGB. The mean hospital length of stay was 3 days (1 to 7). No complications related to the gastroenterostomy occurred. At 3 years, among OAGB patients, there were 5 (21.7%) cases of bile reflux including 2 (8.7%) requiring a revision to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. Among OLGIBP patients, there were 3 (17.6%) cases of bile reflux 1 (5.9%) requiring a revision to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. There was no albumin deficiency. At 3 years, % of total weight loss (TWL) was 43.6 + - 6.2 in the OAGB group vs 48.2 + - 7.4 in the OLGIBP group. CONCLUSIONS The bariatric and metabolic outcomes of OLGIBP are expected to be similar to those of OAGB. The OLGIBP technique should reduce the risks of malnutrition and bile reflux. The two techniques can be safely performed and offer alternatives in bariatric surgery. 

Result #2: uid aecujgr2 
Pancreaticoduodenectomy after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for gastric cancer invading the pancreatic head: A case report
Abstract: 
 BACKGROUND Pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) for advanced gastric cancer is rarely performed because of the high morbidity and mortality rates and low survival rate. However, neoadjuvant chemotherapy for advanced gastric cancer has improved, and chemotherapy combined with trastuzumab may have a preoperative tumor-reducing effect, especially for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive cases. CASE SUMMARY We report a case of successful radical resection with PD after neoadjuvant S-1 plus oxaliplatin (SOX) and trastuzumab in a patient (66-year-old male) with advanced gastric cancer invading the pancreatic head. Initial esophagogastroduodenoscopy detected a type 3 advanced lesion located on the lower part of the stomach obstructing the pyloric ring. Computed tomography detected lymph node metastasis and tumor invasion to the pancreatic head without distant metastasis. Pathological findings revealed adenocarcinoma and HER2 positivity (immunohistochemical score of 3 +). We performed staging laparoscopy and confirmed no liver metastasis, no dissemination, negative lavage cytological findings, and immobility of the distal side of the stomach due to invasion to the pancreas. Laparoscopic gastrojejunostomy was performed at that time. One course of SOX and three courses of SOX plus trastuzumab were administered. Preoperative computed tomography showed partial response; therefore, PD was performed after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and pathological radical resection was achieved. CONCLUSION We suggest that radical resection with PD after neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus trastuzumab is an option for locally advanced HER2-positive gastric cancer invading the pancreatic head in the absence of non-curative factors. 

Result #3: uid ywfcktj8 
Correlation between family history and characteristics of breast cancer
Abstract: 
 Family history is a major risk factor for breast cancer; approximately 5-10% cases of breast cancer are associated with a family history. Herein, we investigated the link between family history and breast cancer features to elucidate the importance of family history in the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. Data from 10,549 patients with breast cancer were collected from 2014 to 2017. Detailed information about the family history of the patients including the degree and number of relatives affected and the types of cancer was recorded. The tumors were pathologically and clinically classified based on the stage, grade, ER, PR, HER2, Ki-67 status, and subtypes, according to standard guidelines. Data were analyzed using χ2 test and multiple logistic regression. Patients with a family history of other cancer types were significantly older at diagnosis than patients with a family history of breast/ovarian cancer (p = 0.002) and those without a family history of cancer (p < 0.001). Patients without a family history of cancer were typically diagnosed at a later stage, including high frequency in N2 (p = 0.035) and TNM stage III (p = 0.015). Compared with patients with second-/third-degree relatives, those with first-degree relatives having breast/ovarian cancer had a higher median age (54.1, p < 0.001) at diagnosis and showed more advanced disease. No significant difference was found between ER, PR, and HER2 status in patients with and without a family history of cancer. Family history of breast cancer can influence the cancer characteristics of the patients at diagnosis, especially patient age, tumor stage, and grade. 

Result #4: uid js9lw0g0 
Breast cancer progression when definitive surgery is delayed
Abstract: 
 Deferment of definitive surgery for some breast cancers has been proposed as a way to conserve hospital resources during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it is currently unknown which, if any, breast cancers are capable of progressing during a few to several months of observation. The difference between clinical size at diagnosis and final pathology size was assessed in 315 stage I-III primary invasive breast cancer patients who were divided into three groups based on the time between diagnosis and definitive surgery. Size differences over time were used to estimate specific growth rates. Compared with the group with ≤60 days between diagnosis and surgery, tumor growth was observed for 12% of tumors in the 61- to 120-day group and 17% of tumors in the >120-day group (p for trend = 0.032). Significantly greater specific growth rates were observed for tumors >2 cm by pathology measurement and for pathology node-positive patients (p < 0.0001 and p = 0.006, respectively). Specific growth rates were significantly greater for luminal B breast cancers than for luminal A breast cancers (p = 0.029) but not for triple-negative or HER2-positive breast cancers not selected for neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. There was no evidence of nodal progression with surgery delay. Fewer than 20% of stage I-III breast cancers not selected for neo-adjuvant chemotherapy evidence size progression during follow-up periods ranging from 61 to 294 days. Clinical-pathological features cannot reliably predict which tumors will grow. Luminal B phenotype was the only clinical variable known at the time of diagnosis that strongly predicted growth. If resource limitations mandate prioritization schemes for breast cancer surgery, luminal B breast cancer may be the highest priority. 

Result #5: uid l5kqixlu 
Pure large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gallbladder, is surgical relentlessness beneficial? A case report and literature review
Abstract: 
 Pure large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gallbladder is a rare disease. However, the prognosis of this aggressive tumor is poor with short survival after diagnosis. We are describing in this manuscript a case of pure large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma in which survival exceeded 26 months, after performing two curative surgeries. We are reporting the case of a 68-year-old woman with a history of recovered right breast carcinoma and operated 6 years later for a completely asymptomatic gallbladder tumor of 31 mm. In this case, curative surgery was performed allowing monobloc resection of the gallbladder and the hepatic segments IVb and V, a lymph node dissection was performed to. The histological examination of the specimen and immunohistochemistry confirms that the tumor was a grade 3 pure large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of gallbladder with lymph node invasion, the hepatic and biliary surgical margins were free. Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy was administered and the evolution was eventless until the discovery at 20 months of a lymph node considered being metastatic recurrence. A second surgery was performed allowing removal of three lymph nodes. This time, a different protocol of chemotherapy was administered to our patient who remains alive and without recurrence at 26 months from her first surgery. Surgical relentlessness with free margins resections associated with appropriate chemotherapy probably improves the survival of patients suffering from this rare and aggressive tumor. 

