What are the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity properties of COVID-19 vaccines?

Result #1: uid vxv82wiq 
Immunogenicity of Varicella-Zoster Virus Glycoprotein E Formulated with Lipid Nanoparticles and Nucleic Immunostimulators in Mice
Abstract: 
 Theoretically, the subunit herpes zoster vaccine ShingrixTM could be used as a varicella vaccine that avoids the risk of developing shingles from vaccination, but bedside mixing strategies and the limited supply of the adjuvant component QS21 have made its application economically impracticable. With lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) that were approved by the FDA as vectors for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 vaccines, we designed a series of vaccines efficiently encapsulated with varicella-zoster virus glycoprotein E (VZV-gE) and nucleic acids including polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly I:C) and the natural phosphodiester CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG ODN), which was approved by the FDA as an immunostimulator in a hepatitis B vaccine. Preclinical trial in mice showed that these LNP vaccines could induce VZV-gE IgG titers more than 16 times those induced by an alum adjuvant, and immunized serum could block in vitro infection completely at a dilution of 1:80, which indicated potential as a varicella vaccine. The magnitude of the cell-mediated immunity induced was generally more than 10 times that induced by the alum adjuvant, indicating potential as a zoster vaccine. These results showed that immunostimulatory nucleic acids together with LNPs have promise as safe and economical varicella and zoster vaccine candidates. 

Result #2: uid y6h81wjz 
Using an effective TB vaccination regimen to identify immune responses associated with protection in the murine model
Abstract: 
 A vaccine against tuberculosis (TB), a disease resulting from infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb), is urgently needed to prevent more than a million deaths per year. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is the only available vaccine against TB but its efficacy varies throughout the world. Subunit vaccine candidates, based on recombinant viral vectors expressing mycobacterial antigens, are one of the strategies being developed to boost BCG-primed host immune responses and efficacy. A promising vaccination regimen composed of intradermal (i.d.) BCG prime, followed by intranasally (i.n.) administered chimpanzee adenoviral vector (ChAdOx1) and i.n. or i.d. modified vaccinia Ankara virus (MVA), both expressing Ag85A, has been previously reported to significantly improve BCG efficacy in mice. Effector and memory immune responses induced by BCG-ChAdOx1.85A-MVA85A (B-C-M), were evaluated to identify immune correlates of protection in mice. This protective regime induced strong Ag85A-specific cytokine responses in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, both in the systemic and pulmonary compartments. Lung parenchymal CXCR3+ KLRG1- Ag85A-specific memory CD4+ T cells were significantly increased in B-C-M compared to BCG immunised mice at 4, 8 and 20 weeks post vaccination, but the number of these cells decreased at the latter time point. This cell population was associated with the protective efficacy of this regime and may have an important protective role against M.tb infection. 

Result #3: uid azfnwc2k 
COVID-19 case profile is changing with the vaccine
Abstract: 
 None 

Result #4: uid x191a8vj 
Immune readouts from the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine
Abstract: 
 Two studies from the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine team describe the immune responses that develop in healthy adults following a single dose or two doses of their adenovirus vector-based COVID-19 vaccine. 

Result #5: uid ufpn5bvv 
Heterologous vaccination regimens with self-amplifying RNA and Adenoviral COVID vaccines induce robust immune responses in mice
Abstract: 
 Several vaccines have demonstrated efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 mediated disease, yet there is limited data on the immune response induced by heterologous vaccination regimens using alternate vaccine modalities. Here, we present a detailed description of the immune response, in mice, following vaccination with a self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) vaccine and an adenoviral vectored vaccine (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19/AZD1222) against SARS-CoV-2. We demonstrate that antibody responses are higher in two dose heterologous vaccination regimens than single dose regimens. Neutralising titres after heterologous prime-boost were at least comparable or higher than the titres measured after homologous prime boost vaccination with viral vectors. Importantly, the cellular immune response after a heterologous regimen is dominated by cytotoxic T cells and Th1+ CD4 T cells which is superior to the response induced in homologous vaccination regimens in mice. These results underpin the need for clinical trials to investigate the immunogenicity of heterologous regimens with alternate vaccine technologies. 

