What is the diagnostic accuracy of the available COVID-19 tests?

Result #1: uid r1l690ir 
Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Human Nasopharyngeal Samples by Combining MALDI-TOF MS and Artificial Intelligence
Abstract: 
 The high infectivity of SARS-CoV-2 makes it essential to develop a rapid and accurate diagnostic test so that carriers can be isolated at an early stage. Viral RNA in nasopharyngeal samples by RT-PCR is currently considered the reference method although it is not recognized as a strong gold standard due to certain drawbacks. Here we develop a methodology combining the analysis of from human nasopharyngeal (NP) samples by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) with the use of machine learning (ML). A total of 236 NP samples collected in two different viral transport media were analyzed with minimal sample preparation and the subsequent mass spectra data was used to build different ML models with two different techniques. The best model showed high performance in terms of accuracy, sensitivity and specificity, in all cases reaching values higher than 90%. Our results suggest that the analysis of NP samples by MALDI-TOF MS and ML is a simple, safe, fast and economic diagnostic test for COVID-19. 

Result #2: uid n5l6ai5m 
Deep Learning Analysis Improves Specificity of SARS-CoV-2 Real Time PCR
Abstract: 
 Real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is widely used to diagnose human pathogens. RT-PCR data is traditionally analyzed by estimating the threshold cycle (CT) at which the fluorescence signal produced by emission of a probe crosses a baseline level. Current models used to estimate the CT value are based on approximations that do not adequately account for the stochastic variation of the fluorescence signal that is detected during RT-PCR. Less common deviations become more apparent as the sample size increases, as is the case in the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. In this work we employ a method independent of CT value to interpret to RT-PCR data. In this novel approach we built and trained a deep learning model, qPCRdeepNet, to analyze the fluorescent readings obtained during RT-PCR. We describe how this model can be deployed as a quality assurance tool to monitor results interpretation in real-time. The model's performance with the TaqPath COVID19 Combo Kit, widely used for SARS-CoV-2 detection, is described. This model can be applied broadly for the primary interpretation of RT-PCR assays and potentially replace the CT interpretive paradigm. 

Result #3: uid bbmmvku2 
A reduction of the number of assays and turnaround time by optimizing Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) pooled testing for SARS-CoV-2
Abstract: 
 OBJECTIVES Early detection of the SARS-CoV-2 infection can decrease the spread of the disease and provide therapeutic options promptly in affected individuals. However, the diagnosis by reverse transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) is costly and time consuming. Several methods of group testing have been developed to overcome this problem. The proposed strategy offers an optimization of group testing according to the available resources by decreasing not only the number of the assays but also the turnaround time. METHODS The initial classification of the samples would be done according to the intention of testing defined as diagnostic or screening/surveillance, achieving the best possible homogeneity. The proposed stratification of pooling is based on branching (divisions) and depth (levels of re-pooling) of the original group in association with the estimated probability of a positive sample. The dilutional effect of the grouped samples has also been considered. RESULTS The margins of minimum and maximum conservation of assays of pooled specimens are calculated and the optimum strategy can be selected in association with the probability of positive samples in the original group. CONCLUSION This algorithm intends to be a useful tool of group testing offering a choice of strategies according to the requirements. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved. 

Result #4: uid r1xulnel 
Prediction of PCR amplification from primer and template sequences using recurrent neural network
Abstract: 
 We have developed a novel method to predict the success of PCR amplification for a specific primer set and DNA template based on the relationship between the primer sequence and the template. To perform the prediction using a recurrent neural network, the usual double-stranded formation between the primer and template nucleotide sequences was herein expressed as a five-lettered word. The set of words (pseudo-sentences) was placed to indicate the success or failure of PCR targeted to learn recurrent neural network (RNN). After learning pseudo-sentences, RNN predicted PCR results from pseudo-sentences which were created by primer and template sequences with 70% accuracy. These results suggest that PCR results could be predicted using learned RNN and the trained RNN could be used as a replacement for preliminary PCR experimentation. This is the first report which utilized the application of neural network for primer design and prediction of PCR results. 

Result #5: uid coeppktz 
Novel application of automated machine learning with MALDI-TOF-MS for rapid high-throughput screening of COVID-19: a proof of concept
Abstract: 
 The 2019 novel coronavirus infectious disease (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has created an unsustainable need for molecular diagnostic testing. Molecular approaches such as reverse transcription (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) offers highly sensitive and specific means to detect SARS-CoV-2 RNA, however, despite it being the accepted “gold standard”, molecular platforms often require a tradeoff between speed versus throughput. Matrix assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI)—time of flight (TOF)—mass spectrometry (MS) has been proposed as a potential solution for COVID-19 testing and finding a balance between analytical performance, speed, and throughput, without relying on impacted supply chains. Combined with machine learning (ML), this MALDI-TOF-MS approach could overcome logistical barriers encountered by current testing paradigms. We evaluated the analytical performance of an ML-enhanced MALDI-TOF-MS method for screening COVID-19. Residual nasal swab samples from adult volunteers were used for testing and compared against RT-PCR. Two optimized ML models were identified, exhibiting accuracy of 98.3%, positive percent agreement (PPA) of 100%, negative percent agreement (NPA) of 96%, and accuracy of 96.6%, PPA of 98.5%, and NPA of 94% respectively. Machine learning enhanced MALDI-TOF-MS for COVID-19 testing exhibited performance comparable to existing commercial SARS-CoV-2 tests. 

