Is the association between COVID-19 and diabetes driven by the dpp4 receptor?

Result #1: uid w3jyovd2 
Global pandemics interconnected - obesity, impaired metabolic health and COVID-19
Abstract: 
 Obesity and impaired metabolic health are established risk factors for the non-communicable diseases (NCDs) type 2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative diseases, cancer and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, otherwise known as metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD). With the worldwide spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), obesity and impaired metabolic health also emerged as important determinants of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Furthermore, novel findings indicate that specifically visceral obesity and characteristics of impaired metabolic health such as hyperglycaemia, hypertension and subclinical inflammation are associated with a high risk of severe COVID-19. In this Review, we highlight how obesity and impaired metabolic health increase complications and mortality in COVID-19. We also summarize the consequences of SARS-CoV-2 infection for organ function and risk of NCDs. In addition, we discuss data indicating that the COVID-19 pandemic could have serious consequences for the obesity epidemic. As obesity and impaired metabolic health are both accelerators and consequences of severe COVID-19, and might adversely influence the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, we propose strategies for the prevention and treatment of obesity and impaired metabolic health on a clinical and population level, particularly while the COVID-19 pandemic is present. 

Result #2: uid tyi0bhpa 
Association between circulating furin levels, obesity and pro-inflammatory markers in children
Abstract: 
 AIM To, in children, investigate associations between serum furin, obesity, overweight, body fat and circulating markers reflecting adipose tissue or systemic inflammation. METHODS We analyzed furin, leptin, adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein, triglycerides, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and C-reactive protein in serum from 166 children in the Pediatric Osteoporosis Prevention (POP) study collected at mean age (SD) 9.9 (0.6) years. Children were classified as low-to-normal weight, overweight or obese. Total body fat mass (kg), trunk fat mass (kg) and total body lean mass (kg) were measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry. Body fat percentage (%) was calculated. RESULTS We found that circulating furin levels were higher in children with obesity and overweight compared to children with low-to-normal weight (p<0.001 and p=0.006 respectively). Also, there were positive correlations between circulating furin, total body fat mass, trunk fat mass, body fat percentage, triglycerides, adipokines and pro-inflammatory markers. CONCLUSION This study indicates associations between furin, adiposity, and a pro-inflammatory milieu in children. We suggest that future studies investigate the role of furin in fat tissue inflammation and associated increased risk of cardiometabolic diseases in children. Studies should also investigate if higher furin levels could be a link between obesity and severe coronavirus disease 2019 in children. 

Result #3: uid 4y317x3t 
Obesity as a multisystem disease: Trends in obesity rates and obesity-related complications
Abstract: 
 Obesity is a chronic multisystem disease associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The increasing prevalence of obesity makes it a major healthcare challenge across both developed and developing countries. Traditional measures such as body mass index do not always identify individuals at increased risk of comorbidities, yet continue to be used in deciding who qualifies for weight loss treatment. A better understanding of how obesity is associated with comorbidities, in particular non-metabolic conditions, is needed to identify individuals at risk in order to prioritize treatment. For metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes (T2D), weight loss can prevent T2D in individuals with prediabetes. It can improve and reverse T2D if weight loss is achieved early in the course of the disease. However, access to effective weight loss treatments is a significant barrier to improved health for people with obesity. In the present paper, we review the rising prevalence of obesity and why it should be classed as a multisystem disease. We will discuss potential mechanisms underlying its association with various comorbidities and how these respond to treatment, with a particular focus on cardiometabolic disease, malignancy and mental health. 

Result #4: uid g6ci7zy1 
Improvement of obesity-associated disorders by a small-molecule drug targeting mitochondria of adipose tissue macrophages
Abstract: 
 Pro-inflammatory activation of adipose tissue macrophages (ATMs) is causally linked to obesity and obesity-associated disorders. A number of studies have demonstrated the crucial role of mitochondrial metabolism in macrophage activation. However, there is a lack of pharmaceutical agents to target the mitochondrial metabolism of ATMs for the treatment of obesity-related diseases. Here, we characterize a near-infrared fluorophore (IR-61) that preferentially accumulates in the mitochondria of ATMs and has a therapeutic effect on diet-induced obesity as well as obesity-associated insulin resistance and fatty liver. IR-61 inhibits the classical activation of ATMs by increasing mitochondrial complex levels and oxidative phosphorylation via the ROS/Akt/Acly pathway. Taken together, our findings indicate that specific enhancement of ATMs oxidative phosphorylation improves chronic inflammation and obesity-related disorders. IR-61 might be an anti-inflammatory agent useful for the treatment of obesity-related diseases by targeting the mitochondria of ATMs. 

Result #5: uid rdescuoj 
Effects of Omega-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids and Their Metabolites on Haemostasis-Current Perspectives in Cardiovascular Disease
Abstract: 
 The beneficial effects of long-chain polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids (omega-3 PUFAs) in cardioprotection are widely known and generally accepted. In this literature review, we have focused on the known and postulated mechanisms of action of omega-3 PUFAs and their metabolites on various components of the haemostatic system, in particular on blood platelets and endothelium. We have also made an attempt to provide a comprehensive review of epidemiological studies with particular regard to clinical trials. Notably, the results of these studies are contradictory, and some of them failed to report the beneficial effects of taking or supplementing omega-3 PUFAs in the diet. A potential explanation, in our opinion, could be the need to use higher doses of omega-3 PUFAs and a proper ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 PUFAs. An additional problem which is difficult to solve is the use of a proper neutral placebo for interventional studies. Despite some controversies regarding the beneficial effects of supplementation of omega-3 PUFAs in cardiovascular disease, our review suggests that a promising aspect of future studies and applications is to focus on the anti-thrombotic properties of these compounds. An argument supporting this assumption is the recent use of omega-3 PUFAs as a supporting tool for the treatment of COVID-19 complications. 

