How do cytokine pathways link sleep and immunity to infection and COVID-19?


Result 1: uid t0g2p9ue

Sleeping when the world locks down: Correlates of sleep health during the COVID-19 pandemic across 59 countries

OBJECTIVES: COVID-19 escalated into a global pandemic affecting countries around the world. As communities shut down to reduce disease spread, all aspects of life have been altered, including sleep. This study investigated changes in sleep patterns and correlates of sleep health in a global sample and examined relationships between sleep health and psychological distress. DESIGN: Cross-sectional. SETTINGS: Online survey distributed between April 19 and May 3, 2020. PARTICIPANTS: Total 6882 participants (18-94 years) across 59 countries. MEASUREMENTS: Sleep health (RU-SATED), demographics, pandemic-related factors, mood. RESULTS: More than half the sample shifted their sleep toward later bed- and wake-times, and more than a third reported increased sleep disturbances during the pandemic. Older age, being partnered, and living in a higher income country were associated with better sleep health, while a stricter level of quarantine and pandemic-related factors (being laid off from job, financial strain, or difficulties transitioning to working from home) were associated with poorer sleep health. Domestic conflict was the strongest correlate of poorer sleep health. Poorer sleep health was strongly associated with greater depression and anxiety symptoms. Participants from Latin America reported the lowest sleep health scores. CONCLUSIONS: COVID-19-associated factors have impacted sleep health on a global level. While our data are correlational, sleep health is strongly linked with mental health and could play a protective role against developing mental distress during pandemic-related isolation. Sleep health should be incorporated into public health messages aimed at helping people cope with the effects of a pandemic to maintain optimal mental and physical health.


Result 2: uid tgrh2eb5

Examining changes in sleep duration associated with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic: Who is sleeping and who is not

Introduction The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in social isolation and reports of insomnia. However, reports of changes in sleep duration and associated factors are few. Methods Data were from an online survey of adults recruited via social media that included a question asking whether the respondent slept less or more after the onset of the pandemic. Analyses determined the association between changes in sleep duration and self reported sociodemographic and occupational information; beliefs about COVID-19; changes in sleep patterns; and responses pertaining to loneliness, anxiety, and depression. Results There were 5,175 respondents; 53.9% had a change in sleep duration. 17.1% slept less and 36.7% slept more. Sleeping more was related to greater education, being single/divorced/separated, unemployed or a student. Being retired, divorced/separated or a homemaker, and living in the Mountain or Central time zones were associated with less sleep. Beliefs that COVID-19 would result in personal adverse consequences was associated with both more and less sleep. However, the strongest associations with both more and less sleep were seen with depression, anxiety, and loneliness with adjusted odds ratios ranging from 1.92 (95% CI 1.67-2.21) for sleeping more and loneliness to 5.29 (95% CI 4.1-6.7) for sleeping less and anxiety. Conclusions Changes in sleep duration since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic were highly prevalent among social media users and were associated with several sociodemographic factors and beliefs that COVID-19 would have adverse personal impacts. However, the strongest associations occurred with worse mental health suggesting that improvements may occur with better sleep.


Result 3: uid eo53kq7r

From sleep medicine to medicine during sleep: A clinical perspective

Sleep has a profound influence on the physiology of body systems and biological processes. Molecular studies have shown circadian-regulated shifts in protein expression patterns across human tissues, further emphasizing the unique functional, behavioral and pharmacokinetic landscape of sleep. Thus, many pathological processes are also expected to exhibit sleep-specific manifestations. Nevertheless, sleep is seldom utilized for the study, detection and treatment of non-sleep-specific pathologies. Modern advances in biosensor technologies have enabled remote, non-invasive recording of a growing number of physiologic parameters and biomarkers. Sleep is an ideal time frame for the collection of long and clean physiological time series data which can then be analyzed using data-driven algorithms such as deep learning. In this perspective paper, we aim to highlight the potential of sleep as an auspicious time for diagnosis, management and therapy of nonsleep-specific pathologies. We introduce key clinical studies in selected medical fields, which leveraged novel technologies and the advantageous period of sleep to diagnose, monitor and treat pathologies. We then discuss possible opportunities to further harness this new paradigm and modern technologies to explore human health and disease during sleep and to advance the development of novel clinical applications: From sleep medicine to medicine during sleep.


Result 4: uid 8fbq1cyw

From sleep medicine to medicine during sleep - a clinical perspective

In this perspective paper, we aim to highlight the potential of sleep as an auspicious time for diagnosis, management and therapy of non-sleep-specific pathologies. Sleep has a profound influence on the physiology of body systems and biological processes. Molecular studies have shown circadian-regulated shifts in protein expression patterns across human tissues, further emphasizing the unique functional, behavioral and pharmacokinetic landscape of sleep. Thus, many pathological processes are also expected to exhibit sleep-specific manifestations. Modern advances in biosensor technologies have enabled remote, non-invasive recording of a growing number of physiologic parameters and biomarkers. Sleep is an ideal time frame for the collection of long and clean physiological time series data which can then be analyzed using data-driven algorithms such as deep learning. Here, we introduce key clinical studies in selected medical fields, which leveraged novel technologies and the advantageous period of sleep to diagnose, monitor and treat pathologies. We then discuss possible opportunities to further harness this new paradigm and modern technologies to explore human health and disease during sleep and to advance the development of novel clinical applications - from sleep medicine to medicine during sleep.


Result 5: uid 57tnttju

Not so sweet dreams: adults' quantity, quality, and disruptions of sleep during the initial stages of the COVID-19 pandemic

OBJECTIVES The purpose of this study was to investigate Ontario adults' reported sleep quantity, quality, and disturbances during the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic (April-July 2020). METHODS As part of a larger, chronic disease-focused, and ongoing longitudinal study designed to explore Ontario adults' health and wellness-related behaviors during the pandemic, participants completed an online survey that included demographic information and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI consists of 19 items, one of which is open-ended, designed to assess an individual's quantity, quality, and patterns of sleep on seven domains (ie, subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleep medication, and daytime dysfunction over the last month). Summative content analysis was used to analyze responses to the open-ended question regarding participants' sleep disturbances. RESULTS This study included 2192 individuals, 85% of whom slept 6+ hours/night. The mean global PSQI score was 7.57, out of a possible 21 (SD = 4.09). The self-reported sleep disturbances of largest concern were: (1) general fear/anxiety/worry (n = 203); (2) children (n = 167); (3) mind wandering/overthinking (n = 118); (4) pain/injury (n = 78); (5) partner (n = 78); and (6) fear/anxiety/stress related to COVID-19 (n = 74). CONCLUSION The global PSQI score was indicative of poor sleep quality, and Ontario adults experienced a number of sleep disturbances during early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. These findings are noteworthy as sleep is a crucial component in positive health and wellbeing.


