What are the genetic and immunologic underpinnings of severe COVID-19?


Result 1: uid zihs6oga

Barriers and Facilitators to Genetic Service Delivery Models: Scoping Review

BACKGROUND: Advances in diagnostics testing and treatment of genetic conditions have led to increased demand for genetic services in the United States. At the same time, there is a shortage of genetic services professionals. Thus, understanding the models of service delivery currently in use can help increase access and improve outcomes for individuals identified with genetic conditions. OBJECTIVE: This review aims to provide an overview of barriers and facilitators to genetic service delivery models to inform future service delivery. METHODS: We conducted a scoping literature review of the evidence to more fully understand barriers and facilitators around the provision of genetic services. RESULTS: There were a number of challenges identified, including the limited number of genetics specialists, wait time for appointments, delivery of services by nongenetics providers, reimbursement, and licensure. The ways to address these challenges include the use of health information technology such as telehealth, group genetic counseling, provider-to-provider education, partnership models, and training; expanding genetic provider types; and embedding genetic counselors in clinical settings. CONCLUSIONS: The literature review highlighted the need to expand access to genetic services. Ways to expand services include telehealth, technical assistance, and changing staffing models. In addition, using technology to improve knowledge among related professionals can help expand access.


Result 2: uid nheao7ml

Immunologic goalposts for TB vaccine development

A limiting factor in identifying effective tuberculosis (TB) vaccines is our incomplete understanding of correlates of protection. In this issue of Cell Host & Microbe, Esaulova et al. reveal cell types associated with TB containment and disease progression in non-human primates, which may provide immunologic goalposts for vaccine design.


Result 3: uid x9co31v3

Genetic clues for predisposition to severe disease

None


Result 4: uid 4k3om9yz

Genetic variation analyses indicate conserved SARS-CoV-2-host interaction and varied genetic adaptation in immune response factors in modern human evolution

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is a pandemic as of early 2020. Upon infection, SARS-CoV-2 attaches to its receptor, that is, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), on the surface of host cells and is then internalized into host cells via enzymatic machineries. This subsequently stimulates immune response factors. Since the host immune response and severity of COVID-19 vary among individuals, genetic risk factors for severe COVID-19 cases have been investigated. Our research group recently conducted a survey of genetic variants among SARS-CoV-2-interacting molecules across populations, noting near absence of difference in allele frequency spectrum between populations in these genes. Recent genome-wide association studies have identified genetic risk factors for severe COVID-19 cases in a segment of chromosome 3 that involves six genes encoding three immune-regulatory chemokine receptors and another three molecules. The risk haplotype seemed to be inherited from Neanderthals, suggesting genetic adaptation against pathogens in modern human evolution. Therefore, SARS-CoV-2 uses highly conserved molecules as its virion interaction, whereas its immune response appears to be genetically biased in individuals to some extent. We herein review the molecular process of SARS-CoV-2 infection as well as our further survey of genetic variants of its related immune effectors. We also discuss aspects of modern human evolution.


Result 5: uid pbkwtyks

SARS-CoV-2 Entry Related Viral and Host Genetic Variations: Implications on COVID-19 Severity, Immune Escape, and Infectivity

Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has evolved to display particular patterns of genetic diversity in the genome across geographical regions. These variations in the virus and genetic variation in human populations can determine virus transmissibility and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) severity. Genetic variations and immune differences in human populations could be the driving forces in viral evolution. Recently emerged SARS-CoV-2 variants show several mutations at the receptor binding domain in the spike (S) glycoprotein and contribute to immune escape and enhanced binding with angiotensin 1-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Since ACE2 and transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2) play important roles in SARS-CoV-2 entry into the cell, genetic variation in these host entry-related proteins may be a driving force for positive selection in the SARS-CoV-2 S glycoprotein. Dendritic or liver/lymph cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-3-grabbing non-integrin is also known to play vital roles in several pathogens. Genetic variations of these host proteins may affect the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2. This review summarizes the latest research to describe the impacts of genetic variation in the viral S glycoprotein and critical host proteins and aims to provide better insights for understanding transmission and pathogenesis and more broadly for developing vaccine/antiviral drugs and precision medicine strategies, especially for high risk populations with genetic risk variants.


