What is the role of corticosteroids in COVID-19?


Result 1: uid gq599egh

Corticosteroids Treatment of Patients with Coronavirus Disease 2019: A Propensity Score Matching Study

The role of corticosteroids in the treatment of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is controversial. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of adjuvant corticosteroids treatment on the outcome of patients with COVID-19 (n=966), using Propensity Score Matching to adjust for potential differences between the corticosteroids group (n=289) and the non-corticosteroids group (n=677). Analysis of data without adjusting differences in baseline characteristics indicated that the proportion of mechanical ventilation and the mortality was higher in the corticosteroids treatment group in total or severe/critical patients. The duration of viral shedding was longer in the non-corticosteroids treatment group in total or general/mild patients. After adjusting the difference between the corticosteroids and non-corticosteroids treatment group, the analysis revealed that the use of corticosteroids had no effect on the duration of viral shedding, in-hospital mortality or 28-day mortality. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (10.1007/s11596-021-2313-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.


Result 2: uid 6fkmb6id

Timing of corticosteroids impacts mortality in hospitalized COVID-19 patients

The optimal timing of initiating corticosteroid treatment in hospitalized patients is unknown. We aimed to assess the relationship between timing of initial corticosteroid treatment and in-hospital mortality in COVID-19 patients. In this observational study through medical record analysis, we quantified the mortality benefit of corticosteroids in two equally matched groups of hospitalized COVID-19 patients. We subsequently evaluated the timing of initiating corticosteroids and its effect on mortality in all patients receiving corticosteroids. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory variables were collected and employed for multivariable regression analyses. 1461 hospitalized patients with confirmed COVID-19 were analyzed. Of these, 760 were also matched into two equal groups based on having received corticosteroid therapy. Patients receiving corticosteroids had a lower risk of death than those who did not (HR 0.67, 95% CI 0.67–0.90; p = 0.01). Timing of corticosteroids was assessed for all 615 patients receiving corticosteroids during admission. Patients receiving first dose of corticosteroids > 72 h into hospitalization had a lower risk of death compared to patients with first dose at earlier time intervals (HR 0.56, 95% CI 0.38–0.82; p = 0.003). There was a mortality benefit in patients with > 7 days of symptom onset to initiation of corticosteroids (HR 0.56, 95% CI 0.33–0.95; p = 0.03). In patients receiving oxygen therapy, corticosteroids reduced risk of death in mechanically ventilated patients (HR 0.38, 95% CI 0.24–0.60; p < 0.001) but not in patients on high-flow or other oxygen therapy (HR 0.46, 95% CI 0.20–1.07; p = 0.07) and (HR 0.84, 95% CI 0.35–2.00; p = 0.69), respectively. Timing of corticosteroids initiation was related to in-hospital mortality for COVID-19 patients. Time from symptom onset > 7 days should trigger initiation of corticosteroids. In the absence of invasive mechanical ventilation, corticosteroids should be initiated if the patient remains hospitalized at 72 h. Hypoxia requiring supplemental oxygen therapy should not be a trigger for initiation of corticosteroids unless the timing is appropriate.


Result 3: uid jwfujj3v

Corticosteroids for CAP, influenza and COVID-19: when, how and benefits or harm

PURPOSE: Corticosteroids have been considered in medicine for a long time, and they are broadly prescribed. In infectious diseases, corticosteroids have been regarded as a thread due to their immunosuppressive effects and therefore their anti-inflammatory properties. MAIN: In recent years, there have been several studies published that aimed to determine the role of corticosteroids in patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), because, despite significant advances in new antibiotics and supportive care, deaths of patients with CAP remain unacceptably high. While the 2007 Infectious Disease Society of America (IDSA)/American Thoracic Society (ATS) CAP guidelines did not mention the use of corticosteroids in the management of CAP, the recently published 2019 IDSA/ATS guidelines recommended their use in patients with septic shock refractory to vasopressors and fluid resuscitation. Regarding viral infection, the use of corticosteroids in patients with influenza has shown to be associated with significantly higher mortality and higher incidence of nosocomial infection, while in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) there is a good body of evidence of the benefit of corticosteroids in terms of mortality. CONCLUSIONS: The use of corticosteroids has been considered as a potential alternative co-adjuvant treatment in patients with pneumonia. In patients with COVID-19, the evidence is quite strong and there is a clear benefit of the use of corticosteroids in those patients presenting severe forms of disease.


Result 4: uid fo6z0u4m

Short durations of corticosteroids for hospitalised COVID-19 patients are associated with a high readmission rate

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to describe the characteristics of patients admitted, discharged and readmitted, due to COVID-19, to a central London acute-care hospital during the second peak, in particular in relation to corticosteroids use. METHODS: We reviewed patients admitted from the community to University College Hospital (UCH) with COVID-19 as their primary diagnosis between 1st-31st December 2020. Re-attendance and readmission data were collected for patients who re-presented within 10 days following discharge. Data were retrospectively collected. RESULTS: 196 patients were admitted from the community with a diagnosis of COVID-19 and discharged alive in December 2020. Corticosteroids were prescribed in hospital for a median of 5 days (IQR 3-8). 20 patients (10.2%) were readmitted within 10 days. 11/20 received corticosteroids in the first admission of which 10 had received 1-3 days of corticosteroids. Readmission rate in those receiving 1-3 days of steroids was 25%. CONCLUSIONS: Most international guidelines have recommended providing up to 10 days of corticosteroids for severe COVID-19 but stopping discharge. Our findings show shorter courses of corticosteroids during admission are associated with an increased risk of being readmitted and support continuing the course of corticosteroids after hospital discharge monitored in the virtual ward setting.


Result 5: uid s4x3qj4m

Efficacy of corticosteroid in patients with COVID-19: a multi-center retrospective study and meta-analysis

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of corticosteroids on COVID-19 patients with different levels of disease severity. METHODS: In our multicenter study, 543 patients with confirmed COVID-19 were classified as Non-severe group and Severe group, and then were compared respectively for all-cause mortality and length of hospital stay between those who received corticosteroids and not. By searching in PubMed, Web of Science, Embase and CNKI, we identified 13 retrospective studies and 6 random control trials eligible for criteria of inclusion, and conducted comprehensive meta-analyses assessing the impacts of corticosteroids on mortality, length of stay, duration of RNA clearance and duration of fever. RESULTS: Our multicenter study demonstrated that low-dose corticosteroids can reduce mortality in the multivariable Cox regression analysis for severe patients(p=0.03), while presented no influence in univariable analysis for non-severe patients(p=0.14). From multivariable analyses, patients with corticosteroids in non-severe group had longer duration of hospitalization(p=0.003), but did not in severe group(p=0.18). Moreover, for severe patients, corticosteroids can evidently shorten duration of fever. The same results were summarized in the meta-analyses supplemented with the result that corticosteroids delayed viral clearing in non-severe patients. CONCLUSION: Corticosteroids should be considered based on patient's condition. For patients with non-severe COVID-19, corticosteroid was not recommended as a routine therapeutic initiative as that presented prolonged duration of hospitalization and delayed viral clearing, as well as no positive impact on prognosis. While low-dose corticosteroids may benefit patients with severe COVID-19 for it can manifestly lower risk of death and improve the clinical status to some extent. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.


