Is there any scientific evidence that any of the alternative remedies can prevent or cure COVID-19?


Result 1: uid ula2xja1

"Can nature heal and be a possible remedy for the management of Covid- 19

The Covid-19 pandemic has become a major challenge for health care professionals and researchers all over the world. The discovery and development of new drugs require time for passing the quality, safety, and efficacy criteria. Hence the only available option is to rely on herbal or natural remedies as well as other existing ones. Nature has its healing power and has the remedy for all the ailments from which life on earth is struggling. For this pandemic situation also, nature should have created a remedy but finding a loophole is in the hands of our researchers. In this hypothesis, a novel combination strategy is introduced with the existing drugs such as hydroxychloroquine and flavonoid in a volatile liquid-based Nanoformulation incorporated into an inhaler as a possible remedy for the management of coronavirus infection. The synergistic activity of this combination shall pave the way for an effective therapeutic strategy for the treatment of COVID- 19 symptoms.


Result 2: uid hp50p5fi

Can nature heal and be a possible remedy for the management of Covid- 19

The Covid-19 pandemic has become a major challenge for health care professionals and researchers all over the world The discovery and development of new drugs require time for passing the quality, safety, and efficacy criteria Hence the only available option is to rely on herbal or natural remedies as well as other existing ones Nature has its healing power and has the remedy for all the ailments from which life on earth is struggling For this pandemic situation also, nature should have created a remedy but finding a loophole is in the hands of our researchers In this hypothesis, a novel combination strategy is introduced with the existing drugs such as hydroxychloroquine and flavonoid in a volatile liquid-based Nanoformulation incorporated into an inhaler as a possible remedy for the management of coronavirus infection The synergistic activity of this combination shall pave the way for an effective therapeutic strategy for the treatment of COVID- 19 symptoms


Result 3: uid lsu74qun

Who Gets Cured? COVID-19 and Developing a Critical Medical Sociology and Anthropology of Cure

None


Result 4: uid leha2848

The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Scientific Publishing

None


Result 5: uid 6frsc4xs

Effectiveness of Using an Instructional Video in Teaching Light-Curing Technique

PURPOSE: To investigate dental students’ ability to deliver satisfactory amounts of irradiance and radiant exposure to simulated cavities by teaching the light-curing technique using instructional video compared to verbal instructions. METHODS: Students attended the didactic light-curing lecture explaining the light-curing technique. Participants were divided into two groups (n=60). Each participant light-cured a class III and a class I simulated cavities with sensors built-in a Managing Accurate Resin Curing-Patient Simulator (MARC-PS) system, using a multiple-emission-peak light-emitting-diode unit. Each student either 1) watched an instructional video (V) showing the light-curing technique, or 2) received individual verbal instruction (I). The light-curing performance, in terms of the mean irradiance and radiant exposure, was recorded. Each student performed light-curing again on the simulated cavities. Students’ feedback for the corresponding teaching method was collected. Comparisons between before and after each instructional method were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Comparisons between both instructional methods were analyzed using a Mann–Whitney U-test (α=0.05). RESULTS: The students’ light-curing performance improved after both methods, as observed on the MARC-PS laptop monitor. The mean irradiance values were anterior-V=1280.6 (183.2), anterior-I=1318.0 (143.5), posterior-V=1337.5 (181.1), posterior-I=1317.6 (248.2) mW/cm(2). The mean radiant exposure values were for anterior-V=13.5 (2.7), anterior-I=13.3 (1.6), posterior-V=13.7 (1.9), posterior-I=13.7 (2.5) J/cm(2). No significant difference was found between both instruction methods. Students reported that each method was effective. CONCLUSION: Using V was comparable to I and an effective tool for teaching the light-curing technique per the students’ ability to deliver sufficient amounts of irradiance and radiant exposure to simulated cavities.


