What are the pros and cons for various types of masks in children aged 6 to 12 for COVID-19 prevention? 


Result 1: uid lr20prun

COVID-19 and the Use of Masks by Children. Statement From the Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region and the European Academy of Paediatrics

Despite the fact that the use of masks and respirators in adults has already reached a consensus in almost all countries and for situations in which they are recommended, this is not the case for the use of mask by children. This statement, regarding the usage of mask by children, has been jointly produced by the Association of Schools of Public Health in the European Region (ASPHER) and the European Academy of Paediatrics (EAP). It provides recommendations on the size of the mask, the material and ergonomics of children's masks. The authors also discuss the psychological dimension of children when they are asked to wear a mask. Moreover, they tackle the difficulties of children with disabilities.


Result 2: uid 62ttl5e3

A Public Health COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy to Maximize the Health Gains for Every Single Vaccine Dose

This commentary discusses the pros and cons of single-dose COVID-19 vaccination versus the 2-dose strategy.


Result 3: uid tkzqd0a3

Physical Activity and Daily Routine among Children Aged 0–12 during the COVID-19 Pandemic in Spain

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the lives of many people. Objective: The aim of the present study was to analyse the physical activity (PA) and daily routine among children (0–12 years) during lockdown and to establish the main relationships among the variables. Methods: A quantitative study with a descriptive–comparative and cross-sectional design carried out. The sample, selected for convenience, consisted of 837 Spanish children aged 0–12. The “Children and confinement” questionnaire was used, distributed electronically through Google Forms and social networks and activated for 45 days. The individuals participating in this study were mainly children (50.2%) who were in primary education (44.8%). Predominantly, the families of participants were biparental (87.9%), with established routines and schedules (85.7%). Results and conclusions: The use of digital screens is an important part of children’s daily routine. Their daily activities were practiced for more than three–six years, with more by girls. The time children devoted to sleep was directly proportional to the time they devoted to physical activity and indirectly proportional to the time they spent watching screens. The children who slept the most were those aged zero–three years, especially girls, who belonged to large families. The levels of physical activity in the sample were low, as were the times spent on activities such as music or games.


Result 4: uid bbud2y3y

Physical Activity and Daily Routine among Children Aged 0-12 during the COVID-19 Pandemic in Spain

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the lives of many people. OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to analyse the physical activity (PA) and daily routine among children (0-12 years) during lockdown and to establish the main relationships among the variables. METHODS: A quantitative study with a descriptive-comparative and cross-sectional design carried out. The sample, selected for convenience, consisted of 837 Spanish children aged 0-12. The "Children and confinement" questionnaire was used, distributed electronically through Google Forms and social networks and activated for 45 days. The individuals participating in this study were mainly children (50.2%) who were in primary education (44.8%). Predominantly, the families of participants were biparental (87.9%), with established routines and schedules (85.7%). RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The use of digital screens is an important part of children's daily routine. Their daily activities were practiced for more than three-six years, with more by girls. The time children devoted to sleep was directly proportional to the time they devoted to physical activity and indirectly proportional to the time they spent watching screens. The children who slept the most were those aged zero-three years, especially girls, who belonged to large families. The levels of physical activity in the sample were low, as were the times spent on activities such as music or games.


Result 5: uid xp6abb8o

Prevalence of Face Mask Wearing in Northern Vermont in Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic

OBJECTIVES Information on the prevalence of face mask use to reduce the spread of SARS-CoV-2 is needed to model disease spread and to assess the effectiveness of policies that encourage face mask use. We sought to (1) estimate the prevalence of face mask use in northern Vermont and (2) assess the effect of age and sex on the likelihood of face mask use. METHODS We monitored the entrances to public businesses and visually assessed age, sex, and face mask use. We collected 1004 observations during May 16-30, 2020. We calculated estimates of overall face mask use and odds ratios (ORs) for effects by age and sex. RESULTS Of 1004 observations, 758 (75.5%) sampled people used a face mask. Our census-weighted estimate was 74.1%. A higher percentage of females than males wore face masks (83.8% vs 67.6%). The odds of face mask use were lower among males than among females (OR = 0.52; 95% CI, 0.37-0.73). Face mask use generally decreased with decreasing age: 91.4% among adults aged >60, 70.7% among adults aged 26-60, 74.8% among people aged 15-25, and 53.3% among people aged ≤14. The OR of an adult aged >60 wearing a face mask was 14.70 times higher, for young people aged 15-25 was 2.72 times higher, and for adults aged 26-60 was 2.99 times higher than for people aged ≤14. Females aged >60 had the highest percentage of face mask use (96.3%) and males aged ≤14 had the lowest (43.8%). CONCLUSIONS Educational efforts promoting the use of face masks should be targeted at males and younger age groups to limit the spread of SARS-CoV-2.


